---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
<h3>Week :eight: </h3>
***  
__:question: Questions :question:__  
*1. What did you do this past week?*  
  This past week my team and I finished up our IDB1 Project which was getting Carina running and getting out project's wiki updated with our report. In class, we've been going over relational algebra and on Friday we went over joins.   

*2. What's in your way?*  
    Waiting for IDB2 Project specs to be released, but that will happen Monday.   
    
*3. What will you do next week?*  
    My team will be meeting up to make a plan for going forward.   
***  

Once again, the daily quizzes are tripping me up. I will most likely be going to the Study Hours this week actually to get some questions answered. I think I need to take advantage of those more.   

***  
<h3> Major :key: </h3>  
Well, if you're iPhone user like me you might have been experiencing an issue with opening links anywhere on your phone. Google Chrome, safari, iMessage, texts, etc--All don't open up links, but instead crash. Apparently, the issue is I downloaded the Booking.com App during spring break and there's some issue with their app that affects the phone's behavior outside the app even.   

Some also say it has to do with Apple's 9.3 iOS update, but I had the problem before I even updated. Anyhow, I've been following the updates and one guy seems to have found a solution, but it takes about 4 hours. I'm going to maybe try it out myself, but if anyone is having the same problem, [here](https://bencollier.net/2016/03/unable-to-open-links-in-safari-mail-or-messages-on-ios-9-3/) is a suggested solution.   

A good tip might be just to wait for Apple and Booking.com figure it out. :upside_down_face:   
