---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---
<h3>Week :two: </h3>
***  
__:question: Questions :question:__  
*1. What did you do this past week?*  
  I completed Project #1 and did the assigned readings. I learned a lot about pair programming and Xtreme Programming theory.
    
*2. What's in your way?*  
  Currently, nothing.  
    
*3. What will you do next week?*  
  Project #2 was released so I'll be going over that. I have a partner already and we're meeting up tomorrow. I also plan to 
  attend a Study Session.
***  
  
So, the week had it's ups and downs. I think I have some things I can learn from for the next project, but overall I feel I did well.
I was able to get comfortable with git branching, commiting, and merging. I unfortunately forgot to push my _Collatz.log_ file and to 
create a _.gitignore_ file and got a late penalty on my Project. So make sure you definitely have **all** of the files. I did finish 
the project sooner than I had estimated. I chose to work in chunks of hours together versus spread out over the week which I think 
helped me be able to focus and get through it instead of spending time tracking where I was at last and regrouping. 

The readings for the past week were interesting and I liked the view of programming as being an in person communicative experience. 
The part about the lab soda machines being the place people met to discuss versus office hours encouraged me to spend more time
in the lab in order to talk with people from class.  
***  
<h3> Major :key: </h3>  
I find it easier to code when I can focus completely on the task at hand. I find yoga to be a great way for me to clear my mind. 
Many people have probably heard of it, but I don't think many know they have teachers available online as well. Check it out [here](http://www.blackswanyoga.tv/).
