---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---
<h3>Week :seven: </h3>
***  
__:question: Questions :question:__  
*1. What did you do this past week?*  
I figured out what group I was to be in for the upcoming project. In class we went over the project details and had a speaker come in from Rackspace to talk about Docker. We also got to have our Friday off which was nice since it was Spring Break.

*2. What's in your way?*  
    Spring Break is coming up so really not much is in my way other than relaxing.
    
*3. What will you do next week?*  
    Spring break is next week so not a whole lot, but we will be working on our project when we're back the weekend before.
***  

This past week we had a speaker from Rackspace who came in and talked to us about how to run Docker. I'm not sure I got too much out of it because I hadn't been exposed to docker or anything of the sort before. However, the slide seems like it'll be a good resource for when we get started with setting up docker for our project.

My group chose to do our IDB project over NFL players who have committed crimes. I'm not really into the idea of doing something over sports, but at least the crime aspect makes it slightly interesting to me. It will also be easy to sort into the 3 pillars of content.

***  
<h3> Major :key: </h3>  
Git hub is hard sometimes and sometimes you mess up, but luckily things can be undone. I found this pretty helpful especially when I was getting used to using github. Check out all the things you can undo/fix in github [here](https://github.com/blog/2019-how-to-undo-almost-anything-with-git)
