---
layout: post
title: Nonequilibrium landscape theory of neural networks  (2013)
category: journalclub
olddate: November 1, 2016
---

* [Paper](http://www.pnas.org/content/110/45/E4185.full) H. Yan, L. Zhao, L. Hu, X. Wang, E.K. Wang, J. Wang., Nonequilibrium landscape theory of neural network, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA E4185-E4194 (2013).


* Abstract

The brain map project aims to map out the neuron connections of the
human brain. Even with all of the wirings mapped out, the global
and physical understandings of the function and behavior are still
challenging. Hopfield quantified the learning and memory process of
symmetrically connected neural networks globally through equilibrium 
energy. The energy basins of attractions represent memories,
and the memory retrieval dynamics is determined by the energy
gradient. However, the realistic neural networks are asymmetrically
connected, and oscillations cannot emerge from symmetric neural
networks. Here, we developed a nonequilibrium landscape–flux theory 
for realistic asymmetrically connected neural networks. We uncovered 
the underlying potential landscape and the associated
Lyapunov function for quantifying the global stability and function.
We found the dynamics and oscillations in human brains responsible
for cognitive processes and physiological rhythm regulations are determined 
not only by the landscape gradient but also by theflux. We
found that the flux is closely related to the degrees of the asymmetric 
connections in neural networks and is the origin of the neural
oscillations. The neural oscillation landscape shows a closed-ring
attractor topology. The landscape gradient attracts the network
down to the ring. Theflux is responsible for coherent oscillations
on the ring. We suggest theflux may provide the driving force for
associations among memories. We applied our theory to rapid-eye
movement sleep cycle. We identified the key regulation factors for
function through global sensitivity analysis of landscape topography
against wirings, which are in good agreements with experiments.




