---
layout: page
title: Presentations
permalink: /presentations/
---

* [Heteroskedasticity-robust tests in linear regression: A review and evaluation of small-sample corrections]({{ site.url }}/files/AERA-2017-HC-t-tests.html). Presentation at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 30, 2017 in San Antonio, TX.
* [Using response ratios for meta-analyzing single-case designs with behavioral outcomes]({{ site.url}}/files/AERA-2017-poster-Using-response-ratios.pdf). Poster presented at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 28, 2017 in San Antonio, TX. 
* [A nonlinear intervention analysis model for treatment reversal single-case designs]({{ site.url }}/files/AERA-2017-poster-intervention-analysis-model.pdf). Poster (with Daniel M. Swan) presented at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 28, 2017 in San Antonio, TX. 
* [Small sample corrections for use of cluster-robust standard errors in the analysis of school-based experiments]({{ site.url}}/files/CRVE-SREE-20170302.pdf). Presentation at the Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness Conference, March 2, 2017 in Washington, D.C.
* [Effect sizes for single-case research]({{ site.url}}/files/Single-case-methods-IES-PI-meeting-2016.pdf). Presentation at Institute of Education Sciences 2016 Principal Investigators Meeting, December 19, 2016 in Washington, DC.
* [Small-sample methods for cluster-robust variance estimation and hypothesis testing in fixed effects models]({{ site.url}}/files/CRVE-JSM-20160731.pdf). Presentation at the Joint Statistical Meetings, July 31, 2016 in Chicago, IL.
* [When large samples act small: The importance of small-sample adjustments for cluster-robust inference in impact evaluations]({{ site.url}}/files/CRVE-AIR-20160715.pdf). Presentation at the American Institutes for Research Impact Working Group Lecture Series, July 18, 2016.
* [When large samples act small: Cluster-robust variance estimation and hypothesis testing with few clusters]({{ site.url}}/files/PRC_talk_20160219.pdf). Presentation at the Population Research Center colloquium, February 19, 2016.
* [Small-sample adjustments for multiple-contrast hypothesis tests of meta-regressions using robust variance estimation]({{ site.url }}/files/Pustejovsky_SRSM_2015.pdf). Presentation at the Society for Research Synthesis Methods annual meeting, July 8, 2015 in Nashville, TN. ([Working paper]({{ site.url}}/files/Tipton-Pustejovsky-F-tests-with-RVE-May-2015.pdf))
* [Operational sensitivities of non-overlap effect sizes for single-case experimental designs.]({{ site.url }}/files/AERA-2015-poster-Non-overlap-measures.pdf) Poster presented at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 19, 2015 in Chicago, IL. ([Conference paper]({{ site.url }}/files/Pustejovsky-Non-overlap-measures-AERA-2015.pdf))
* [Small-sample adjustments for F-tests using robust variance estimation in meta-regression.]({{ site.url }}/files/AERA-2015-RVE-F-tests.html) Presentation (with Elizabeth Tipton) at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 18, 2015 in Chicago, IL. ([Conference paper]({{ site.url }}/files/Tipton-Pustejovsky-In-Review.pdf))
* [Observation procedures and Markov Chain models for estimating the prevalence and incidence of a state behavior.]({{ site.url }}/files/Pustejovsky-AERA-2015-estimating-prevalence-and-incidence.pdf) Presentation at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 16, 2015 in Chicago, IL. ([Conference paper]({{ site.url }}/files/PIR-APP-AERA-2015.pdf))
* [Small-sample adjustments for tests of moderators and model fit using robust variance estimation in meta-regression.]({{ site.url }}/files/SREE-2015.html) Presentation (with Elizabeth Tipton) at the Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness Conference, March 6, 2015 in Washington, D.C.
* [Four methods of analyzing partial interval recording data, with application to single-case research.]({{ site.url }}/files/AERA-2014-poster-4-methods-for-PIR.pdf) Poster presented at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 4, 2014 in Philadelphia, PA. ([Conference paper]({{ site.url }}/files/4-PIR-methods-AERA-version-20140312.pdf))
* [Addressing construct invalidity in partial interval recording data.]({{ site.url }}/files/TUESAP-talk-2014.pdf) Presentation at the Texas Universities Educational Statistics and Psychometrics Meeting, March 21, 2014 at Texas A&M University, College Station, TX.
* [On internal validity in multiple baseline designs.]({{ site.url }}/files/Pustejovsky-SREE-2014.pdf) Presentation at the Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness Conference, March 6, 2014.
* [Some Markov models for direct observation of behavior.]({{ site.url }}/files/behavior-observation-stats-department-presentation.pdf) Presentation at the Department of Statistics, Northwestern University, May 29, 2013.
* [Effect sizes and measurement comparability for meta-analysis of single-case research.]({{ site.url }}/files/abai-2013.pdf) Presentation at the annual convention of the Association for Behavior Analysis International, May 28, 2013 in Minneapolis, MN.
* [Observation procedures and Markov chain models for estimating the prevalence and incidence of a behavior.]({{ site.url }}/files/aera-2013-poster-recording-methods-dtmcs.pdf) Poster presented at the American Educational Research Association annual convention, April 30, 2013 in San Francisco, CA.
* [Operationally comparable effect sizes for meta-analysis of single-case research.]({{ site.url }}/files/sree-2013-presentation.pdf) Presentation at the Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness Conference, March 7, 2013 in Washington, D.C.
* [Some implications of behavioral observation procedures for meta-analysis of single-case research.]({{ site.url }}/files/Effect-sizes-for-behavioral-observation-data.pdf) Presentation at the Department of Educational Psychology, College of Education, University of Texas at Austin, November 14, 2012.
* [Question-order effects in social network name generators.]({{ site.url }}/files/question-order-effects-poster.pdf) Poster presented at the 28th annual International Sunbelt Social Network Conference, January 22-28, 2008, in St. Petersburg Beach, Florida.
