README.md, before:

# IT-Tutor.dk


The IT-Tutor homepage. Written in Jekyll

Based on [https://github.com/plusjade/jekyll-bootstrap]

This site is written in Jekyll and hosted on github pages. This means that if you push changes to the master branch those changes will show up on [it-tutor.dk]. Cool right?!

**This repo is ad-hoc documented so the entry level for this might be high** All critical parts of the process required to make changes to the page should be documented here. However some basic knowledge of web develæopement and Markdown is required. A list of ressources is maintained in the buttom of this file.


##Actions

This section will answer how to do the most common actions on [it-tutor.dk]

###Add a page
To add a new page simply add a new .md file with the content in MarkDown to the root of this repository. The page will be automaticly added to the menu and published.

###Edit a page
Simply edit the .md file containing the page in the root folder

###Edit layout of a page
If you want to change a layout of a specific page have a look in the header of the .md file. All pages have declared a layout format in the beginning og the .md file. 

If you want to make changes to a layout have a look in the .html files in the _layouts folder.

The front page look can be edited through /_layouts/default.html 

#Edit look of a page
Most look is defined in style.scss the rest is found in the _sass folder


##Lokal Setup

If you want to get the page to run locally to in order to test changes before going live it can be done easily. A guide can be found ind the [docs](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)

For reference (primarily my own) a list of the commands done in order to set the enviroment up can be found below. 

*Note: I might document the setup process in the future. For now onbly ad-hoc documentation has been done*

###Linux

```bash
apt-get install ruby
apt-get install ruby-dev
gem install jekyll bundler
gem install jekyll-sitemap
gem install pygments.rb
gem install jekyll-paginate
gem install jekyll-gist

```

###Windows and OSX
**?**


##Run and test

From the **root** directory:

```bash
jekyll serve
# => Now browse to http://localhost:4000
```



=====Ressoruces=====

**Markdown Cheat sheet:** [https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet]
**Convert Google Docs to MarkDown:** [https://github.com/mangini/gdocs2md]
**Liquid cheat sheet** [https://gist.github.com/smutnyleszek/9803727]

Find out more: [https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/]
Jekytll Docs: [https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/]

Commit message:

Changed readme and added new blog post

README.md, after:

# IT-Tutor.dk


The IT-Tutor homepage. Written in Jekyll

Based on [https://github.com/plusjade/jekyll-bootstrap]

This site is written in Jekyll and hosted on github pages. This means that if you push changes to the master branch those changes will show up on [it-tutor.dk]. Cool right?!

**This repo is ad-hoc documented so the entry level for this might be high** All critical parts of the process required to make changes to the page should be documented here. However some basic knowledge of web develæopement and Markdown is required. A list of ressources is maintained in the buttom of this file.


##Actions

This section will answer how to do the most common actions on [it-tutor.dk]

###Add a page
To add a new page simply add a new .md file with the content in MarkDown to the root of this repository. The page will be automaticly be published. If you want the page in the main menu please add it to the grop "nav" by decalring it in the header of the .md file. An example of a header can be seen below:


'''
---
layout: page
title: THE TITLE
permalink: /URL/
group: nav <!-- #Includes it in the menu-->
---
''' 

###Edit a page
Simply edit the .md file containing the page in the root folder

###Edit layout of a page
If you want to change a layout of a specific page have a look in the header of the .md file. All pages have declared a layout format in the beginning og the .md file. 

If you want to make changes to a layout have a look in the .html files in the _layouts folder.

The front page look can be edited through /_layouts/default.html 

#Edit look of a page
Most look is defined in style.scss the rest is found in the _sass folder

#Submit a new post to the front page
To submit a new post to the front page just add a new .md file to the _posts directory.


##Lokal Setup

If you want to get the page to run locally to in order to test changes before going live it can be done easily. A guide can be found ind the [docs](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)

For reference (primarily my own) a list of the commands done in order to set the enviroment up can be found below. 

*Note: I might document the setup process in the future. For now onbly ad-hoc documentation has been done*

###Linux

```bash
apt-get install ruby
apt-get install ruby-dev
gem install jekyll bundler
gem install jekyll-sitemap
gem install pygments.rb
gem install jekyll-paginate
gem install jekyll-gist

```

###Windows and OSX
**?**


##Run and test

From the **root** directory:

```bash
jekyll serve
# => Now browse to http://localhost:4000
```



=====Ressoruces=====

**Markdown Cheat sheet:** [https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet]
**Convert Google Docs to MarkDown:** [https://github.com/mangini/gdocs2md]
**Liquid cheat sheet** [https://gist.github.com/smutnyleszek/9803727]

Find out more: [https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/]
Jekytll Docs: [https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/]
