---
layout: project
title: Beehive Visual Inspection
date: September 29, 2014
image: Progress.png
---

## Background
Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD) is a poorly understood phenomenon responsible for substantial loss in the American and European honeybee industry, costing billions in lost revenue worldwide.  Though research is emerging that raises suspect to neonicotinoid* presence in modern pesticides, I wish to implement a machine-learned method to preemptively anticipate CCD before the hive reaches critical unsustainability.  To do this, I would utilize a Raspberry Pi in conjunction with robotic peripherals (such as a camera, flash, and air sensor) to measure the bee environment in detailed ways never done before.  

My hypothesis is that there exists a relationship in these parameters such that a machine learning algorithm could deduce useful conclusions and forewarn future beekeepers on the dangerous conditions of their hives, thus amending CCD.
*A neuro-active insecticide chemically similar to nicotine.

## Description
I took up an interest for beekeeping as soon as I graduated high school.  For me, it was an extremely rewarding hobby that has measurable effects to the local environment.  As I progressed through my mechanical engineering undergraduate, I discovered coding and was enamored by the broad range of problems in which it is useful.  I learned through the open-source community, took online programming courses, and ultimately kindled a career in robotics with Northwestern University’s Master of Science in Robotics program.  Being at an even more advanced level, I’m seeking to heighten the magnitude of the problems that I address.  

Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD) is the phenomenon coined for the approximately one-third of bee colonies worldwide do not survive the winter, with some farms experiencing near to complete losses. The beekeeping industry supports a nearly $20 billion US agriculture industry.  Some crops, such as Californian almonds, rely 100% on bee pollination.  The cost of bee pollination services has risen three-fold in the last ten years as a result of CCD.  It is estimated that one in three bites taken can be linked to bee pollination. 

Research is emerging that suggests a combination of neonicotinoid presence in pesticides and varroa mites are suspect to CCD.  At the end of 2013, the European Commission placed a 2-year restriction on the use of neonicotinoids due to the European Food Safety Authority’s recommendation that the use of the chemical places a “high acute risk” to honeybees in the pollen that they collect.  The results of the experiment are not yet available, but this is a progressive step towards collecting conclusive evidence regarding this issue. 
Some research is gauged towards a plan B in the event honeybee pollination becomes too scarce, though the solutions are extremely intractable.  Labs, such as Harvard’s Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, are developing miniature flying robots coined as ‘RoboBees’ to fill in the pollination burden.  Though extremely fascinating and novel work, it is an exhaustive vision to think a robotic fleet can surpass the function provided by a single hive of 50,000 honeybees, who can self-repair, communicate efficiently, reproduce autonomously, and self-regulate.  Because of this, it is essential to address this problem for honeybees and avoid the dystopian scenario in its entirety.     

This is mostly a data acquisition problem, which is extracted through peripheral sensors, including a monocular camera. 

As a first installment to the project, the objective is to develop an efficient method in which the visual characteristics of a hive can quickly be approximated and used for valid data analysis.  Certain lifelines to a colony, such as bee count, brood count, empty cell count, honey count, and the presence of a queen are all important factors that are difficult for beekeepers to numerically track.  Below is an example of an image collected from my father’s hive, which serves as an early indication for the feasibility of this work.

Collecting image data in a controlled setting is an extremely important factor when implementing computer vision algorithms for the function of data acquisition.  For this reason, a special box will be fabricated to serve as a consistent platform for photography.  It wields opaque walls, an orifice for a camera module to fit, and a synchronized flash to be regulated with a measurable intensity.  A frame, which is a wooden section containing honeycomb, is inserted into this box.  Static images and short video segments are collected and the position of the frame within the hive is documented.

Video acquisition offers the opportunity to easily segment a foreground (containing bees) and background (containing honeycomb).  This procedure is called background subtraction, and often has application in areas such as traffic monitoring, or home security.  By taking a short film segment, allowing bees to move and reveal the background, a more complete map of the honeycomb can be built without having to remove the bees.  The advantage to this method is a more complete understanding of the honeycomb composition, in which the algorithm in Figure 4 can optimally be applied.  

Identifying an individual bee poses perhaps the biggest challenge, and its success is first contingent on the ability to completely remove the foreground.  A supervised machine learning method will be implemented.  Various features will be examined, including detail near the wings, thorax, eyes, texture, and an image histogram.  A small sampling window extracts features of an image that may or may not contain bees, compares through a Support Vector Machine (SVM), and rapidly returns a classifier as to whether or not a bee is present.  Accuracy can be validated based on painstakingly counting frames and comparing against the SVM.

Upon having all visual data available, the broader aspect of the research can commence.  This procedure is algorithmically redundant to the earlier method, so its implementation should be very straightforward.  Visual data, and optionally environmental data, are fed into a machine learning algorithm to predict the likelihood that a hive will or will not face jeopardy in the near future.  Data collection will likely need to be representative to hundreds of hives, making this a great opportunity for an open-source project to get younger, techie generations involved in beekeeping.

This project proposes a method in which visual data is extracted from beehives and fed into a machine learning algorithm to classify the fate of a hive.  It involves the novel approach of using static images, as well as video, to segment media into useful forms for interpretation.  Upon successful collection of hive data, the real issue of anticipating CCD losses can commence.  The hypothesis for this project is that there exists a correlation between visually observable features of a beehive and the likelihood that a fateful future rests for the bees.  In its successful implementation, beekeepers can intervene before it is too late.