---
layout: project
title: Differential Roller Screw Design
date: September 27, 2014
image: hand.png
---

## Background
Myoelectric (robotic) upper limb prostheses are often too large and cumbersome for smaller amputees, especially among women.  The motivation of this project is to develop a myoelectric limb to the proportional size, weight, and strength of a 25th percentile female, implying that an appropriately sized limb will be available for 87% of women and even more men.

## Technical Description
My research focus was in the linear transmission used to actuate the hand and elbow mechanism.  Specifically, this involved developing an analytical model of a differential roller screw mechanism.

A differential roller screw is a type of linear transmission in which the angular velocity of a leadscrew and tagentially mated nut are not equal, thus creating differential motion at the advantage of higher translational forces.  The nut and screw transmit forces through an ideal rolling contact model, which indicates losses of power will be limited to the local deformation at the point of contact, as opposed to sliding frictoin in the traditional model.  Upon developing an analytical model, a high-resolution 3D-printed prototype (with printed helical threads) was fabricated and evaluated for efficiencies in a dynamometer.  

Though we did establish a predictable trend in the design parameters and output efficiencies, it was not anticipated that the highest available resolution 3D-printed parts would impact the resultant efficiency to the degree that it did.  Continuing with the research, we would eliminate any constraints in resolution and explore metal alternatives.
