---
id: 163
title: 'Blink-182 &#038; &#8217;10 For $10&#8242; Tour'
date: 2009-08-06T14:27:43+00:00
author: happyseizure
layout: post
guid: http://happyseizure.wordpress.com/?p=163
permalink: /2009/08/blin-182-10-for-10-tour/
categories:
  - Festivals
  - Gigs
  - USA
tags:
  - 10 for $10
  - Blink 182
  - Grand Rapids
  - Milwaukee
---
Blink show a couple nights back was pretty sweet.

Chester French were the first band, did a weird indie dance pop kinda thing&#8230; Then came Panic At The Disco. Never really been a fan of them but they did their thing and were entertaining for a bit.

Fall Out Boy were their usual selves, not too much of a light show but the sound was good for them, they jumped around, whatever.

Blink-182 were surprisingly good! Massive thanks to Souli (friend of a friend) for getting me tickets, I was freaking out for a bit because the Ticketmaster website wouldn&#8217;t let me buy tix and I couldn&#8217;t get to an outlet so it was either try call in a favour to get someone to hook me up or hope that they still had tix when I arrived (didn&#8217;t really want to take that chance when I was travelling 17 hours just for the show!), so thankfully Mel came to the rescue and helped organise it.

Anyway they pretty much played a best-of set, what you&#8217;d expect, but unfortunately no new songs&#8230; Light set up was pretty cool, big screens strobes, all the rest. One of the cool things I was pretty stoked to see was Travis&#8217; drum kit getting suspended real high in the air and spun around, even twisted around until it was vertical! I got a video of it, hopefully I ca post that up sometime next week when I&#8217;m back at home and have the time to upload clips of several hundred MBs.

Yesterday I drove 5 and a half hours through 4 states to Grand Rapids, MI, all for the &#8217;10 for $10 Tour&#8217;. As the name suggests, you see 10 bands for a tenner. I figured I&#8217;d miss the first couple bands, arrive around 5 pm instead of 4. By the time I turned up 4 bands had already played&#8230; and I noticed the gig finished early, around 10pm&#8230; then it hit me &#8211; apparently it&#8217;s an hour earlier here than it is back in Wisconsin and I was completely on the wrong time. Not really to worry though, still saw all the bands I wanted to.

The Mongoloids were pretty decent, nothing spectacular though. Crime In Stereo seemed a little flat, but might have had something to do with the crowd&#8230; it felt a little odd watching them at a mostly really punchy hardcore show and the crowd weren&#8217;t all that into em. Bane, who I knew nothing of, were brilliant! Best band of the night for me, totally converted, and I finally got to see a full set of Poison The Well&#8230; Really enjoyed them too, but would have loved to see more stuff off of You Come Before You

Sorry bout the no pictures, i really can&#8217;t be bothered right now. Driving another 2-3 hours back to Chicago today, Lollapalooza starts tomorrow!