---
id: 571
title: More snow!
date: 2010-12-17T19:29:40+00:00
author: happyseizure
layout: post
guid: http://happyseizure.wordpress.com/?p=571
permalink: /2010/12/more-snow/
categories:
  - Canada
tags:
  - Cypress Mountain
  - Vancouver
---
Work&#8217;s been a little better recently, night shifts still suck but I&#8217;m getting used to the long days plus I&#8217;ve also got enough time every day to get in about 45-60 mins of snowboarding which takes the edge off a little bit. I still haven&#8217;t broken anything, or at least not any bones&#8230; Put a dirty big crack in my googles yesterday after an elegant face plant, though I only actually noticed the crack when I took the goggles off to look at them. Maybe it was just my ugly mug that cracked them?

Yesterday was a pretty good day on the hill, I tried to take some video while snowboarding so you can see the kinds of views you get from up there on a nice day&#8230; It&#8217;s mostly just of me slowly going down the hill, with the camera angled off to the side at pretty much nothing, but I wasn&#8217;t really keen to go flying down the hill while holding my camera. You start seeing a bit of the scenery overlooking downtown Vancouver about halfway through. Looks pretty rad in real life.

[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=THnOe726JBc]

Heading back up to Vernon/SilverStar to spend new years with Bee and Allie, somehow managed to organise a long weekend for myself so I could get there&#8230;

Also the Australian crew at work are already working on Australia Day plans (looks like the Australian contingent of the Lift Operations team will be conspicuously absent that day), and I am working on heading back to Seattle in early February. Or maybe Portland. We&#8217;ll see what happens as time gets closer.

This everlasting holiday rules.