---
title: The Shape My Feet Left on the Fridge: Summer Nights of Indeterminate Emotion, Barricaded Phone Calls, and the Logarithmic Escalation of Drama
link: https://flotsametc.wordpress.com/2012/06/24/the-shape-my-feet-left-on-the-fridge-summer-nights-of-indeterminate-emotion-barricaded-phone-calls-and-the-logarithmic-escalation-of-drama/
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
post_id: 100
created: 2012/06/24 16:18:10
created_gmt: 2012/06/24 20:18:10
comment_status: open
post_name: the-shape-my-feet-left-on-the-fridge-summer-nights-of-indeterminate-emotion-barricaded-phone-calls-and-the-logarithmic-escalation-of-drama
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# The Shape My Feet Left on the Fridge: Summer Nights of Indeterminate Emotion, Barricaded Phone Calls, and the Logarithmic Escalation of Drama

I had a pleasant surprise, sort of a blessing. I don't normally get to make phone calls in the house. Thin walls, odd sleeping hours, general repression, and the like. But someone I haven't spoken with for a long time called last night, and I barricaded myself in the kitchen and sat on the floor, speaking quietly. It worked. Nobody woke up and shushed me. Spoke from 1am to 2am, and I'm glad we did. There's a general sort of unease you get on summer nights. You know you should be dreadfully happy; you're calm, fed, warm, safe, and sleepy. But you're not. So you go outside and read a book and call folks and write a little and try to work it out, and you can't. It's an indeterminate emotion. I knew exactly what she was talking about. And vice versa. My escalations are logarithmic. The way I described it was akin to the lines on a log graph; they bunch up, and then eventually you have to start counting them in groups of ten, and things seem sparse for a while, even though they're not. And then they bunch up again, and so forth. Drama works like that. I had a million things going on last month, and none of them came to a satisfying end. Just more threads, and things I've forgotten about. And this month has been eventful, but in the way where I can't remember what I was on about last month or even last week. And things have consequences, and by the end of it I can't even keep it all straight in my head, and I restart and refresh and the lines become sparse again, even though they're really, really not. But it was a good call. Not an expected call at all, but a good call. I'm looking forward to the freedom of college, to be able to make calls like that, to either sit in my closet or kick out my roommate or go find an empty part of the hall to sit in. It wasn't that we were talking about secrets, but it wasn't a public conversation. She missed me. Can I say that without sounding the way I think I sound? She isn't the only one in the past months. I become distant. It's coming back to me now. It was one of the threads of drama I forgot about, and it's coming round again; I become distant. It wasn't a question: we both know why it happened, but that doesn't excuse that it happened, that it took a year to become even okay for me to call her without breaking a sweat. And then the process cut itself in half the next time, and in half again, and now I'm expected to process things as fast as they come, lest I fall behind. And I got a letter. Not a handwritten one, but an important one. And I read it and it was heartwarming, but it's just another drop in the bucket. I don't have the emotional range to properly process and respond to all this at once. In ten years it'll either be incredibly important or I'll forget it happened, but I don't know what to do with it at the moment. But it's a letter, and it goes in the box.