---
title: Inherent vs. Experienced: Humor as the Unexpected Juxtaposition, the Author's Contract, and Subverting Expectations
link: https://flotsametc.wordpress.com/2012/06/10/inherent-vs-experienced-humor-as-the-unexpected-juxtaposition-the-authors-contract-and-subverting-expectations/
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
post_id: 56
created: 2012/06/10 21:03:29
created_gmt: 2012/06/10 21:03:29
comment_status: open
post_name: inherent-vs-experienced-humor-as-the-unexpected-juxtaposition-the-authors-contract-and-subverting-expectations
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Inherent vs. Experienced: Humor as the Unexpected Juxtaposition, the Author's Contract, and Subverting Expectations

Humor is the unexpected juxtaposition of elements to create a _subtle, non-abrasive sense of unease_. At its lowest level, ideas can be funny. Humor can be language-based: read, spoken, written, or heard. Images, still or moving, can be funny. Even noises without meaning, such as onomatopoetic words can be funny. Smells can be funny, if they're inappropriate. Touch can be funny, if you're ticklish. So humor isn't bounded to any particular sense. But music isn't funny. Music can be inappropriately juxtaposed, such as an inappropriately cheery pop song over a serial killing spree (_Hip To Be Square_, _American Psycho_). But it's always the idea that's funny, not the music. Lyrics or delivery thereof can be funny, but that's not the music. When music is itself composed of unexpectedly adjacent elements, that's not funny. Music with unexpected chords isn't funny. It's _good_. Writing that subverts your expectations is funny - this is how humor works. But music that subverts your expectations is merely technically proficient, and that much isn't even a prerequisite for good music. So how is music an exception? Are there other exceptions? I'm not sure. I think design and architecture have a hard time being funny. They can be cute. They can make references to other eras and juxtapose two inappropriate things — a high-rise apartment building, the inside of which looks like a victorian mansion. But that wouldn't be funny. That would be _cool_. A web page with a subversive amount of whitespace wouldn't be particularly funny. Yet art can be funny. Art is frequently, nearly constantly funny. Art can _have_ good cheer and mirth in ways that music can only _evoke_. Art has within it inherent emotions, clear depictions of situations and characters and ideas, a capturing of their platonic form. Music can only evoke emotions in its listeners, based on the shared contract that, because the heart beats quickly when its owner is alert, fast tempos mean high energy. Major keys mean happy, minor keys mean sad. But these are not inherent in the music, only in the audience. And they are constant and unchanging, unlike the way blues and greens can be warm or cold, happy or sad, welcoming or foreboding. So if humor isn't an inherent property of matter, the way mass and velocity seem to be, what is it? Is it arbitrary? Senses of humor vary, yet degrees of unexpected juxtaposition have a universal corollary: the more removed two things are from each other, the funnier they'll be together. But art and writing and ideas are infinitely variable, and architecture and design and music are limited in a way. There can be debates over what is art or writing or what constitutes an idea, but art can be found without human input. Ideas are found in nature. Design and architecture and music are all very specifically human arts in a way that writing (the capturing of a small, running feed of chaotically produced ideas) only is sometimes. There's no argument over what music is. If a human made it with the intention of it being music, or if a human heard it and called it music, it's music. Art is much more vague: art can exist without an audience. Music doesn't get to. Art and writing and ideas stand alone. Design has to be used, architecture navigated, music heard. So we have the inherent vs. the experienced. Perhaps we are more hard-pressed to find humor in the experienced arts (design, architecture, music) because we're so wary of the effort that's gone into them, where as art, writing, ideas can be generated, found in nature. Is humor, then, still a distinctly human trait?