---
title: Random Seeds: John Darnielle, The Book of Job, and Cryptographically Secure Art
link: https://flotsametc.wordpress.com/2012/06/09/seed/
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
post_id: 5
created: 2012/06/09 18:47:39
created_gmt: 2012/06/09 18:47:39
comment_status: open
post_name: seed
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Random Seeds: John Darnielle, The Book of Job, and Cryptographically Secure Art

In my final semester of high school, I took an unusual course called _Old Testament as Literature_. Taught by the aptly named Dr. Mozes, the course consisted of reading bible passages and interpreting them exclusively as works of art by an author who intended their consumption as scripture. We read much of the Old Testament, discussing the book as though it were _the Odyssey_ or _A Thousand Years of Solitude_. It was heavily open to interpretation. Dr. Mozes had a theory about Job - that it was the seed for the rest of the Bible. He said, often with some conviction, that it had been written first, to present the biggest problem, the problem of evil. In Job, the Devil (called the Adversary) bets God that he can manipulate Job, the most pious man on earth, to curse Heaven. The Devil takes everything from Job, and his friends beg him to reconsider his worldview. But he doesn't. Perhaps Job had served as a random seed for the rest of the bible. A centuries-long chain of authors and editors took Job and wrote a detailed backstory: they created theology in Genesis; society in Exodus; existentialism and cyclical fatalism in Ecclesiastes and Judges respectively. The Samuel-Kings-Chronicles cycle initialized history. In the shadow of larger epics, Job became just another morality tale. _The Life Of The World To Come_ is a concept album, perhaps in two parts (proceeded by _The Life Of The World In Flux_, a more sparsely arranged demo album) which tells stories based around individual passages from the Old and New Testaments. Stories hint at - and are named for - the expulsion from Eden, or a vision of seven stars, or Rachel's offering of Bilhah to Jacob as a childbearing wife by proxy. But they do not mention miracles, they do not discuss religion, and they do not instruct faith. Instead, they are tiny offerings of the lives (as always with The Mountain Goats, autobiographical is a relative term) of their subjects. The Bible was a _random seed_ for this album. It's often unclear how John Darnielle got from one point to another, but the remnants of the Bible can be seen in the text. The algorithm is specific to that one human's writing abilities, and that's what the album is really a celebration of. Not the Bible, which is very old and has a billion interpretations. Moreover, the album is _cryptographically secure_: it's familiar, but it sounds brand new. It makes musical sense, but it trips us up with mixolydians and unusual rhythms. I think that one of the benchmark tests for what constitutes _art_ should be that level of security: if the audience can make the algorithmic leap from random seed to finished product by themselves, then the artist has become unnecessary.