---
layout: post
title: When Time Froze
---

The month of October always had two reasons to be special for my family. My youngest brother Andrew was born Oct. 22, 1995. That is definitely the first reason my family loved it. But in 2000 we soon started looking forward to a second reason to love October. This was the yearly Pastors’ Kids and Missionaries’ Kids Retreat—or just “PK/MK” as we called it. PK/MK was the most fun a kid could ask for; an entire weekend away from mom and dad. There were church services designed for kids that we attended, but the real joy was on Saturday where the entire camp would go to an amusement park for the day. Being late in the season, the lines for the rollercoasters and bumper cars were short which made for even more excitement. One year however, none of that mattered.

Andrew was as full of energy as the next five-year-old-boy, but his love for “Blue’s Clues” and “Thomas The Tank Engine” could not be rivaled. Early on, girls my age who would meet Andrew would immediately talk about how cute he was with his brown hair and blue eyes. I made it very clear to the girls that Andrew and I were inseparable and that we did everything together. He looked up to me as his older brother to look after him and to love him and I loved him just as much. The attention he got me from the girls was just an obvious benefit.

In October 2001 Andrew celebrated his fifth birthday. I don’t remember a whole lot about it unfortunately. My 14-year-old-mind was too focused on that following weekend—the weekend of PK/MK. The time had finally come and my other brother, Christopher, and I were having a wonderful time. Like all great times it quickly came to an end. It was now a cool, damp Sunday afternoon and the final church service was over. I walked back to my room. My room was in a two floor cinderblock building—from a distance it just looked like a small white brick with an orange roof. Covered with a dozen or so orange flakes for doors, it sat on its hill near the entrance of the camp. It had a rickety iron walkway on the outside, which was also painted a rusty orange, to access the second floor as if it were made to be a small hotel.

The walk back to my room is all I remember now of that weekend. While walking back to my room to gather my belongings I hear a familiar voice call out to me in excitement. I turned over my left shoulder to see my little brother Andrew flinging open the side door to my parent’s minivan and start running towards me. It was then that time froze. I’ve heard people say that in moments of intense shock and horror it can feel as though everything around you has screeched to a halt. The sounds of your environment can even become a slow muffled blob. That is exactly how the world appeared when the sparkling chrome bumper barreled into Andrew’s small body. I could do nothing but slowly turn my body as I watched him lift completely from the earth and set sail like a kite released on a breezy day. Instantly time returned to normal as his body hit the gravel-sprinkled asphalt. The small drive wound its way from the camp’s entrance all the way to the field in the rear.

I rushed to my brother as fast as I could along with my now unstable mother. His body, so still and lifeless, just lay there. His eyes were slightly opened but rolled back so they appeared to be a foggy white. A thin elderly gentleman emerged from his camel colored Cadillac in his 1970s styled brown suite fell to his knees next to my mother and me as we all sat circled around my brother. When the paramedics arrived, Andrew showed little signs of life. I remember them poking and prodding brother’s small body as he laid there. Slowly, Andrew turned his head side to side while moaning. They gently lifted him onto a gurney and loaded it into the ambulance. By now my father had arrived from the other side of the camp where he was picking up my younger brother Christopher. My father attempted to console my bawling mother. I sat in the side doorway of the family’s van with my arm around Christopher; the same door where just moment before Andrew excitedly leaped out of to see his older brother.

Within minutes we were in a hospital waiting room. I don’t remember the drive as much as I do sitting there, waiting. Andrew, was he okay? I had a phone card with some leftover minutes from a missions trip a few months before so we spent the remainder of it on a pay phone calling family members and loved ones to ask them for their prayers.

My family sat impatiently in the uncomfortable waiting room chairs for what felt like forever. “Is he OK,” my mother’s voice strained to ask. Christopher and I jumped to our feet. That was all any of us wanted to know at this point. Was my little brother okay? My father walked closely behind a doctor as he approached me and the rest of my family. He spoke directly to my crying mother, but I knew that he was speaking to all of us.

“He’s going to be OK,” the doctor reassured.

I thought to myself, “Wait, did I hear this right? What kind of miracle is this? I saw my brother’s body lift from the ground and soar through the air! Saying he is going to be OK could mean a lot of things though.”

The doctor expanded upon his statement by informing us that Andrew had a broken clavicle. Since we lived so far from where this camp was located that they would need to move him to another hospital. My mother asked if she could see her baby before they have to move him and the doctor complied.

The car drive home was a long one. My mother drove the nearly eight hours straight, with Christopher and me in the car. My father rode with Andrew in a helicopter back to Norfolk. We stopped only once that I can remember at a rest stop, but only for a minute. The rest of the journey is nothing more than a sleepy blur. But to this day I wonder what was going through my mother’s head as she walked into the hospital room. To see her son lying there half unconscious in a bed, hooked up to machines intended on monitoring his little life? How could she be strong enough to drive all the way home in the state that she was in?

The story of Andrew getting hit by the car is not spoken of often in my family. However, I believe that moment caused my family to grow closer together. It caused us to be there for each other in a way that may not have been possible without that accident. I do not have any children of my own yet, but I hope I never have to experience a moment with them where I can look back and say, “time froze.”