---
title: Thesis
link: http://writing.jbuckland.com/post/70121434455/thesis
author: jamesbuckland
created: 2013-12-15
status: publish
post_type: post
slug: thesis
layout: post
---

Picture a soft leather recliner and a plain wooden stool side-by-side. They are different shapes, colors, textures, compositions, prices; they serve different specific purposes; they are different objects. But they are both **chairs**, subsets of the set of all chairs, which is difficult to define but, like Potter Stewart, I know it when I see it. They are projections of the Platonic **ideal** of the 'chair'. Their shared property (the ability to be sat on) binds them together.

Here I have butchered Plato's **Theory of Forms** in an attempt to lay the groundwork for a study of practice of musical **sampling**, which I will later extend to remixes, mashups, covers, and other forms of derivation. In the short-term, copying work may seem disrespectful, an infringement on copyright, authorial ownership, etc. In the long-term, it is in fact an act of respect, often culminating in the work being elevated into the popular consciousness in the form of a folk song.

A wonderful example is the horn riff from *Marva Whitney*'s **Unwind Yourself**, produced by *James Brown* in 1967.

<iframe frameborder=\"0\" src=\"//www.youtube.com/embed/-MUTOo78cE0?rel=0\" width=\"100%\"></iframe>

This is a wonderful 60s funk number which, like the many other thousands of wonderful 60s funk numbers, might have easily been lost to obscurity, as most music (art?) eventually is. Luckily, it was rescued by *DJ Mark The 45 King*, a breakbeat DJ in mid-80s New Jersey.

<iframe frameborder=\"0\" src=\"//www.youtube.com/embed/axJpBlxW6n0?rel=0\" width=\"100%\"></iframe>

His talent was for sampling twenty-year-old 45rpm records: he played breakbeat drums underneath old-school (only twenty years old at the time) funk riffs. In 1987, he sampled **Unwind Yourself** for **The 900 Number**, earning him a record contract and a production deal. But the sample really went huge with DJ Kool's 1996 hit **Let Me Clear My Throat**, a live concert recording that rocketed to #8 on the UK Singles Chart and #30 on the US Billboard Hot 100.

<iframe frameborder=\"0\" src=\"//www.youtube.com/embed/9LgkNcnueNM?rel=0\" width=\"100%\"></iframe>

This horn riff has a 30-year legacy across three genres (funk, breakbeat, rap), and has wormed its way into the popular consciousness, being used in countless movies. All three songs are platonic projections of the platonic ideal of this horn riff, expressed by each artist in a different way for a different audience. This repeated derivation exhibits a sort of natural selection: the riff always had potential, but only through a repeated process of refinement was it able to break through onto the charts.