---
title: Ave Maria
link: https://medium.com/p/60348cd3124c
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
created: 2013/11/03
comment_status: open
post_name: ave-maria
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Ave Maria

Early days of senior year of high school, when I was studying for the SAT IIs. I was just texting a girl I’d met, getting to know her, putting out tendrils, trying to get myself into her life; I was studying up on a college campus near my house. I’d found a nice cafe with high-vaulted ceilings and cold, disconnected people; abstract sculpture in the atrium, a roof garden, all the trappings of a mature postgraduate experience: brushed steel and glass, dropping temperatures; late, drowsy nights spent relentlessly studying material. I found a backdrop for this: Boards of Canada, with its patterns and modes of being, concerned with pleasing itself, not a listener; you had to work a little harder to enjoy it, but it was more of a reward. And it held me in hypnosis: I would spend hours on the weekends up on campus studying, texting, listening. And there was a church a bit north of there, and another a bit south: sometimes I’d make the extra journey and go see the northernmost one, with its impossibly tall facade and gated entrance. I could never go in, but I could walk around and listen to Ave Maria and feel grand and majestic, a tiny cog in a machine. Then I would go home and practice punching buttons on a calculator to try and improve my score by a few hundred points. This was high school.