---
layout: post
title: Review of “The Big Lebowski”
---

While some movies cause the viewer to exercise their frontal lobes by guessing who the “Psycho” killer is or what happened to the 65 million dollars’ worth of gold bars that was stolen during “The Italian Job.” However, others take a back-seat to the characters and their interactions. That’s what “The Big Lebowski” (1998) is all about. While the idea of something so simple may be presented in a 15-minute short by some, the Coen Brothers draw it out to 117 minutes. One-hundred-and-seventeen minutes may sound like a long time to tell a story of a man’s journey to obtain a rug, it is done so using humor, profanity and nine White Russians—the drink.

The story revolves around a man by the name of “The Dude” (Jeff Bridges) and his journey to obtain a replacement rug—it is urinated on by a man who him and his partner mistake the lazy and jobless Dude for an elderly crippled millionaire. His carefree personality is only accentuated by his long hair and goatee, dingy V-neck t-shirts and plaid Bermuda shorts while wearing his 80’s jelly shoes, the type of man who has no problem putting on his sunglasses and bathrobe to go to the supermarket. In attempts to retrieve what he believes to be his compensation, The Dude meets with the millionaire, Jeffrey Lebowski—also referred to in the film as “The Big Lebowski” (David Huddleston). The Dude argues that he deserves to have a replacement rug since that they were after him and not The Dude—not to mention how well the rug tied the room together.

Bridges plays the role of a hippie who never grew up, as if the Dude was truly who he is and not a Hollywood actor. It is hard to envision Jeff Bridges as a wealthy Hollywood elitist after seeing how well he personifies The Dude. When the Dude is asked if he ever went to college, he replies by saying, “I did but, you know, I spent most of my time occupying various administration buildings, smoking a lot of Thai sticks, breaking into the ROTC, and bowling.”

The actors chosen for the cast of “The Big Lebowski” is what really makes the movie into the cult classic it has become. The Dude’s best friend, Viet Nam vet. Walter Sobchak (John Goodman) has no problem sharing his mind with anyone and even less of a problem trying to sway the Dude to make poor decisions—albeit Walter thinks that they are for the better. Goodman’s character has no problem scream at anyone who offends him, whether they are at the bowling alley or diner, the funeral home or middle of the street and especially over the phone. Walter’s character is memorable due to lines such as “Hell, I can get you a toe by 3 o’clock this afternoon… with nail polish. These fucking amateurs…” and “I told that kraut a fucking thousand times that I don’t roll on Shabbos!”

The Dude and Walter have a mutual friend by the name of Theodore Donald ‘Donny’ Kerabatsos (Steve Buscemi) who completes their little threesome. The quiet and reserved Donny is a brilliant contrast to Walter and balances out their group of friends perfectly—although taking a backseat role to Goodman’s loud and robust character. The best example of this takes place in the first scene in the bowling alley, shortly after the Dude’s rug is peed on, as the Dude says, “Walter, he peed on my rug!” Donny interjects with “He peed on the dude’s rug.”

Which Walter quickly replies, “Donny you’re out of your element!”

Obviously being in a large number of the scenes that push the movie forward, there is still no point the Donny’s character. However, without it, some of the best quotable moments would have never existed.

The memorable cast doesn’t stop there. It continues with Jesus Quintana (John Turturro) who is the Dude’s bowling rival in the race to make the tournament and who also we learn revealed himself to an eight-year-old. Although Turturro’s character is in the film less than five minutes, he has some of the most notable quotes; the most famous probably being, “Let me tell you something, pendejo. You pull any of your crazy shit with us, you flash a piece out on the lanes, I’ll take it away from you, stick it up your ass and pull the fucking trigger ‘til it goes ‘Click. Click. Click.’”

The movie’s dialogue is really what prevents the movie from being just another pothead movie and makes it an instant comedy classic. Rather than reusing the same one-liners that are so commonly used, the Coen Brothers write fresh and memorable comedic line, one after another. The way the dialogue is presented is similar in fashion and just as unforgettable as that of “Monty Python and the Holy Grail”—endless laughter and quotable moments.

The content of the film may not be up to par with the standards that some have set for themselves. There is a considerable amount of language throughout the film as well some partial nudity and sexual innuendoes. The film deserves its R rating although still is able to keep its content funny, without stooping to the lows of potty humor and gratuitous actions to make the audience laugh. Instead, the Coen Brothers skillfully weaved the characters’ dialogue and actions into one element where one just wouldn’t be the same without the other. A large portion of this is made successful by the actors themselves and after seeing the film you can honestly say that no other actor could take their place.

Probably the thing that sets “The Big Lebowski” apart from any other film, is the way the Coen Brothers perceived the movie’s plot. The movie’s Blu-ray contains an interview with Joel Coen on the making of the film and he states,

“With this one we sort of figured, you know, if things become a little bit too complicated or unclear, it really doesn’t matter. I mean, the plot is kind of not the…and gain, this is similar to Chandler. The plot is sort of secondary to the other things that are sort of going on in the piece. I think that if people get a little confused it’s not necessarily going to get in the way of them enjoying the movie.”

Coen was right. Although the movie falls just shy of two hours, there really isn’t a need to pay attention the plot. The premise of the film may be simple (the Dude wanting his rug replaced), the plot is constantly evolving and taking forms that the view isn’t expecting it to take. American author Raymond Chandler is an obvious influence in the delivery of the movie as it revolves around the Dude, as he haphazardly meets people on his journey.

From a moronic case of mistaken identity to a quest to replace a micturated upon rug, from a hostage situation to bowling league finals and from having your car stolen to a street fight with a group of nihilists, “The Big Lebowski” never once leaves the viewer wondering “why am I watching this” or, “how much longer is this?” It presents a basic situation that most would find completely irrelevant to sustain everyday-life and turns it into a good reason to sit in a dark room with a bunch of strangers to watch flashing lights on the wall—something that is easier said than done.