---
layout: post
title: The Obstacles of Success
---

Norfolk Public Schools’ motto is “Nationally Recognized. Globally Competitive.” In a presentation given in November, they made it clear that technology was very important to their success in the classroom. Their presentation slides even listed the use of technology as their first strategy to help students, “pass local, state and national assessments at levels which meet and are continuously progressing toward exceeding established standards.” To do this, the schools have chosen to implement a program called Achieve3000–a form of differentiated online instruction designed to increase proficiency in students’ reading and writing. However, one school in particular, has already set their students up for failure.

Booker T. Washington High School has failed not only their students but their teachers as well. While other high schools in the district are providing their teachers the opportunity to utilize Achieve3000 twice a week in all their English classes, Booker T. has decided that students will be given the opportunity to partake in the training only once before taking their SOLs. What they seem to be forgetting is that learning takes times and it is not as simple as putting students in front of a computer for part of their 90-minute bell. Administration, however, has scheduled a specific time and date that teachers need to have their students use the school’s library computers to train using Achieve3000. The problem is that the school lacks an adequate number of computers to serve their students.

The core classes that will be using Achieve3000, average from 25 to 30 students, while the school’s library only has 30 computers. That’s 30 computers to be shared by over 1,200 students. One teacher was asked if the 30 computers were enough for they class and they said, “Barely. five of them don’t even work and three or four of them have problems connecting to the network. Even with the ones that do work you need to be logged in and out of a few times just to get onto the Internet, and even then, they sometimes won’t work at all.” Back in October, one of Booker T’s librarians asked the new Superintendent, Samuel T. King, about the computer to student ratio and she was told that they were aware of the situation and would look into the situation. It’s almost March now and still no word.

Booker T has been struggling for some time now and this year the school is barely holding onto its accreditation with warning. The first assumption would be that the school doesn’t have the money to allow teachers to properly train their students, but, new couches and a television for the teachers’ lounge were purchased this year, and to some seem more like administration’s feeble attempt to buy the teacher’s loyalty.

Some departments at the school are thriving. The school’s band got new uniforms this year and the cafeteria got all new lunch tables. Band uniforms and lunch tables are important, but the school could have benefitted greater with more computers and other technology in the classrooms.

The school’s principal, Kevin Monroe, was quoted saying, “Just because you don’t have a printer in your room, doesn’t mean that you can’t do your job.” He’s right, it doesn’t. But forcing teachers to pay out of pocket for the printed materials is asking bit much. Each English teacher at Booker T has an average of 135 students and is only allotted two reams of paper for an entire month–that’s averages out to less than 7.5 pages of paper per student for an entire month and that doesn’t include anything the teacher needs to print for themselves.

This year, teachers were only given $50 at the beginning of the school year for classroom supplies. That is not $50 per class, that is $50 per classroom. Most of the teachers have spent hundreds of dollars of their own money on classroom supplies throughout the year because things like pens, pencils and notebooks, aren’t being provided in the home.

A number of larger expenses have been made this year that might have been better used in technology for the classroom. The same technology that Norfolk Public Schools claimed to be so vital to a student’s education. So where else is the funding that the school receives going? For starters, administration all got new Apple iPads at the beginning of the year. With the base model of each running a minimum of $399, that is a lot of money that could have been put into educating the students.

The school’s latest purchase is surprisingly actual technology for the classroom. The school has purchased a number of Mimio boards: small projectors that allow a teacher to project text or an image onto a whiteboard which can then drawn on. Each of these systems runs over $700, and buying 16 of them, four per core department, costs the tax payer nearly $12 thousand. While these will be a great tool for the classrooms who get them, purchasing computers for the students to use for studying, research and testing, would have been far more fiscally responsible.

Booker T. Washing High School has made poor decision after poor decision this year when it comes to spending the tax payers’ dollar. It’s time for Norfolk Public Schools to take action and purge Booker T. of the administration who have been carelessly failing the teachers it claims to appreciate, the students it claims to have pride in and the community it promised to serve.

Maybe Booker T. Washing High School is attempting to take what their namesake said to heart, “I have learned that success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has had to overcome while trying to succeed.”