---
title: Alright — John Legend
link: https://ezekielseven.wordpress.com/2013/03/10/alright/
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
post_id: 115
created: 2013/03/10 11:45:39
created_gmt: 2013/03/10 16:45:39
comment_status: open
post_name: alright
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Alright — John Legend

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilw2ggzQLR0 One of the terrible things about being in a cappella is that when you have a hammer, everything looks like a nail. Luckily, one of the great things about being in a cappella is that when you have a hammer, everything _is_ a nail. _Alright_ is a modern R+B song by John Legend, off an album (Get Lifted) where — and I shit you not —_ basically every single song_ is about cheating in one way or another. _Alright_ is about tempting other girls to cheat on their boyfriends with him. _She Don't Have To Know_ is John Legend singing about cheating on his girlfriend. So is _U__sed To Love U.__ Number One, Ordinary People, _and_ Stay With You _are all, promising not to cheat on his girlfriend any more. In _I Can Chang__e_, it takes Snoop Dogg to convince John Legend not to cheat on his girlfriend. Phenomenally, _Number One _guest stars Kanye West, who has perhaps my favorite verse of all time: a short interlude in which he _talks to his penis and discovers it has a mind of its own and that it, not he, is responsible for cheating. _

> I suppose you was told by them hoes I was cheatin' Thinkin' my heart don't got nothing to do with my penis He got a mind of his own and he just be seeing shit And I don't wanna cheat but I don't be saying shit I try to jack off he ask me who is you playin' wit? But I know he love you he told me you was his favorite

Oh. My. God.