---
title: Lions
link: https://medium.com/p/d6073ab992e3
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
created: 2014/12/19
comment_status: open
post_name: lions
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Lions

It’s a poison, and I have to get it out. You can’t ignore a snakebite.

Tomorrow — today, really — in about seven hours, this is going to be the hardest final I’ve ever taken. And I can’t sleep — I’ve done the tricks, read poetry, had a glass of water, earplugs, multiple alarms, this isn’t the problem. There’s something inside of me that has to get out, and until it does I’ll be stuck here with this fart in my soul.

This happens a lot, actually. I think maybe my last entry here was written under similar circumstances, under the duress of a self-imposed bedtime. In a week I will be going to sleep at 3am and waking up at 3pm, as a twenty-year-old is meant to do.

I have been delivered, today, a very old memory, from the depths of my mind. It’s midwinter, or maybe fall, and it’s dark out. I’m back home, in the city, and I’m supposed to meet Sam, I think. My phone is dead — this was before long batteries and data and outlets, back when once you were dead, you were dead, that was it. I told her I’d be at the New York Public Library, so here I am, sitting with my backpack and raincoat, but no umbrella, under the enormous marble terrace atop the library steps, waiting indefinitely until something happens. She’ll get up from underground, up where there’s reception, and she’ll read the text, and she’ll come and find me and then this strange dark piece of lint at the back of my mind can come undone, and I’ll be free again. And it is this way for an hour, two hours — the rain keeps coming down, and more people take shelter from the storm. This is a big one, the man on the radio says — I assume. I didn’t have a radio. And it turns to sleet, and then snow, and at this point the water is rising against the steps, and I’m wearing nothing remotely prepared for this. Still, better here than in a cafe somewhere.

I want to find you a picture of the city at night in the rain, when it’s no longer glamorous or miserable or any strong emotion, it just is, the average of nine million thinking living breathing independent idiotic creatures who have decided to be together. But I can’t.

I love you, New York. I miss you terribly and I’ll be home soon. You have been fine, thus far, without me — your walls have not crumbled nor have your streets turned to ruin. You hardly noticed I was gone, yet here I am, 3000 miles away, waxing poetic. Soon I’ll be like you — distant, uncaring, stronger for it.