#Blog: Week One  
  
This week's readings contain meditations on the origins and challenges of digital history, as well as opportunities opened up by the field.  As an introductory assignment we were asked to visit a digital archive and link it back to some of these readings.  
  
  The archive I chose to visit was **The Valley of the Shadow** project, an early digital history project begun by Edward L. Ayers at the University of Virginia in the 1990s.  **The Valley of the Shadow** amasses an impressive array of archival materials -- photographs, newspaper clippings, diaries, battle maps -- to compare the experience of a Northern and a Southern county immediately prior to, during, and after the Civil War.  You can access the archive [here](http://valley.lib.virginia.edu/VoS/choosepart.html), but I highly recommend reading through the "Using the Valley Project" guide before browsing.  The nonlinear format and sheer volume of material is overwhelming to a newcomer.  
  
  **The Valley of the Shadow** is an interesting test case for a framework Douglas Seefeldt and William G. Thomas set up in their [What is Digital History](http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1097&context=historyfacpub) article.  Here Seefeldt and Thomas argue that whereas *digitization* is done from the vantage point of a librarian -- i.e., sources are culled broadly to ensure their significance to a variety of audiences, and often made digital on a large and public scale, indexed or searchable similar to a library -- *digital history* is something qualitatively different.  Digital history attempts "to arrange a more discrete collection of sources and materials around a historiographical question."  In other words, it is less concerned with providing a broad and open archive than with argumentation and inquiry. The first exemplar they list is none other than **The Valley of the Shadow**.  
  
  I agree that by this definition Ayers' project -- actually a collaborative affair, that has brought on eminent  managers such as Amy Murrell Taylor and William G. Thomas III -- is many ways digital history.  The project was born out of interests Ayers was already pursuing in print publication (see this [2008 roundtable](http://www.journalofamericanhistory.org/issues/952/interchange/)), and sought to bring together materials that Civil War historians were using to answer some of their most vexing questions, particularly the war's effect at the community level.  There seems to be an inherent tension here, however, as the **Valley of the Shadow** is self-consciously an exploratory archive that allows viewers to move between different kinds of sources and draw out their own narratives from the Civil War period.  Insofar as we consider it digital history we must accept the fact that this open archive is in fact curated, set up with its own conceptual and geographic frames, and laden with the concerns of the scholars who have overseen its creation.  To the extent that academics want to prioritize the vantage point and meaning-making of the viewer rather than producer it would seem they must be willing to accept a role that is in some ways more similar to the librarian, archivist, or information architect.
  
  Many projects exist in a less ambiguous space.  A digital history project that is more heavily curated -- and therefore more transparent, but also less open to discovering new meaning -- is MIT's [Visualizing Cultures](http://ocw.mit.edu/ans7870/21f/21f.027/home/index.html).  Here primary sources are scanned in medium-to-high definition, each held together conceptually by an essay from a scholar in the field.  **Visualizing Cultures** comes much closer to conventional print publishing; it is difficult to determine, in fact, what the digital format provides other than ease of access and reproduction.  
  
  At the opposite extreme is an archive I use in my own research, [Naver News Library](http://newslibrary.naver.com/search/searchByDate.nhn#%7B%22mode%22%3A3%2C%22trans%22%3A%221%22%2C%22pageSize%22%3A20%2C%22date%22%3A%221988-09-27%22%2C%22page%22%3A1%2C%22officeId%22%3A%2200020%22%2C%22publishType%22%3A%2200020%22%2C%22fevt%22%3A3758%7D), a capacious text-searchable archive of major twentieth-century Korean newspapers.  Here the archive is buoyed by Korea's relatively lax copyright laws (contrast this to [the grim history of US copyright law](http://chnm.gmu.edu/digitalhistory/copyright/) presented by Daniel J. Cohen and Roy Rosenzweig) as well as the vast capital of Naver, the company that commissioned the project.  While this sort of archive falls squarely in the *digitization* category, it is a revolutionary transformation in terms of access, even translating antiquated language written in Chinese characters into modern Korean that non-specialists can understand.  The new audience of researchers to whom this material has been brought may not write digital histories, but they are certainly evidence of digitization's swath and potential.
