---
layout: post
title: Home Sweet Home
---
<p align="justify">

It’s my last week here in Netherlands and I decided to create to blog to document my life from now on, and it doesn’t even matter if somebody’s reading or not. It’s just nice to document memories,with time most memories will fade away anyway, so this might be the chance to save them. I don’t want to go into too much of a detail because I still respect my privacy and dignity. I know that the Internet is not the place to expose your sensitive information, yet here I am writing a blog.

Last couple of days have been so exciting, full of adventures and most importantly - I was given a chance to meet people literally from all over the World. From night out in bar on Wednesday till  ”“high end”” house party on Friday, followed by lazy Saturday music fest. I couldn’t imagine that I will experience this in my last week of Holland. It felt like true expat-slash-international life where you meet new people and become friends instantly. Definitely one of the highlight of the last 10 months.

Last two weeks could be described as “living fast”. I have done some much and I almost have no free time, despite the fact that I am not attending almost any lectures. So many errands to run and, of course, all these European formalities. Ugh!

I feel happy and sad at the same time due to the fact that I have to leave in two and a half days. Three months of pure, healthy and heavenly delicious Latvian food makes me impatient to get home, while, on the other hand, consciousness that I will be forced to live in there for the next three months seems daunting to me. Well, okay, it’s not hell on Earth or anything, but it is incomparably different that it is here. There is almost no expat-slash-international vibe which kind of charges me. People are a lot different that I am now used to. Not necessarily bad, just different, more introvert. I paint my country in dark colors but that’s how I see it. It will always be the place where I come from, but most likely it will never be a place I live in. It’s probably not as bad as I think it is, it’s just seems not to be a place for me.

I believe that everything is happening for a reason (cheesy!) and every step I take shapes me the person I am now. So I am happy, charged and prepared to spend the summer at home.

Till next time!

#home
