---
title: Escape
link: https://medium.com/@jamesbuckland/escape-87bf9e0bdbd6
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
created: 2014/04/12
comment_status: open
post_name: escape
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# Escape

It’s 3:30am on a Monday, and I’m on Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard, drunk, high, out of phone battery, and exhausted. The trains aren’t running, the shuttle bus is late, and I’m 50+ blocks from home. This is idiotic. Where is the shuttle bus? Is the train running and I read the sign wrong? I can’t walk home, I’d never survive. It’s freezing cold.

##Champaign, 2014 April

Then it’s 8:00pm on a Friday and I’m at Tower on Third in Champaign, Illinois, severely fucked up on very light beer. I’m on the twentieth floor, the highest elevation I’ve ever been in the state of Illinois (discounting air travel). They’re just getting into it, but I’m getting out. I take the elevator down twenty-one floors, and seek refuge in the basement, where I find a toilet and hover for an hour, on the verge of vomiting. I try to walk home, stopping to pee at Fat Sandwich, and then at the Union, and then again at Espresso Royale.

##Cambridge, 2013 November

And then it’s Saturday, 1:00am, and I’m at MIT, but my bed for tonight is at Tufts, a brisk four-mile walk. There are trains, but I don’t know how to use them. My phone’s dead, I’m slightly drunk, it’s blisteringly cold. I have a jacket, but it’s in my bag. My bag has zippers, but my hands are numb and ineffectual. I get to the train station, but there’s construction. The *T* takes me into the city first before routing me back out again. I fall asleep briefly on the train.

I get home, somehow. It’s 3:00 and I wake up my parents, or it’s 2:00am and I wake up the entire house I’m visiting, or it’s 1:00am and I’m home safe in my dorm, unable to sleep, listening to Ave Maria and waiting for the sun to rise. I made it through, of course. These aren’t the stories that end with obituaries. These are the stories that end with sheepish, embellished retellings the next morning, as defense and justification. And they happen, again and again.

What kind of man cannot control his own fate? Where will I be after college? I don’t know where I’ll be this summer. I don’t know where I’ll be after finals. I don’t know where I’ll be tomorrow, or if I’ll go to sleep after writing this. I am a blank slate.