---
layout: post
title: Tidewater Comicon and BlizzCon 2014...or Rather a Terrible Semester
---

I know I promised an update from Tidewater Comicon and from BlizzCon and I never delivered. In fact, I even have a rather long post written about Comicon and another on BlizzCon. However, as both of these events have come and gone, I felt it was almost pointless posting them. Graduate school has kept me rather busy and I’ve found myself journaling more than anything else.
This has been the most frustrating semester of grad school. I only took two classes–one eight weeks and one 16 weeks–and both classes were a disaster. However, they were disasters for different reasons. The eight week class was about journalism and technology. If you can believe it, we blew through the majority of Adobe CC and Wordpress. Granted I don’t believe that this course covered anything that couldn’t be taught by watching a few YouTube videos. This class either needed to be a full 16 weeks or it needed to be split up into multiple classes. Lucky for me, I have a B.A. in animation and am already fairly familiar with all of the products that we covered in the course. That also probably had a lot to do with receiving a 100 on every assignment.
The 16-week course was called something like, “Popular Culture, Story Telling & Worldview.” Of course, being a “Christian university,” it ended up being nothing but worldview. And with that, it was primarily an attempt to twist everything into Christian worldview. Now, if that is all the class offered I would have been okay. However, it wasn’t that simple. The course was made up of the following: * Weekly discussion board questions (since the course was online) * 3 book reviews * 1 allegorical project that consisted of a paper and a powerpoint * 1 cumulative paper Not a bad or overwhelming course at all. That is, it wouldn’t have been as long as the course was taught properly.
I’ve been in school my entire life–with the exception of a six month break between degrees–and one thing that I believe is very important in education is instructor feedback. Without feedback, there is no real way of knowing what you need to work to improve. I mention this because it has everything to do with my 16-week course.
A few weeks into the course our first book review was done. I had not done a book review in forever and to make it worse I quickly scanned only a portion of the book. “Whatever,” I thought, “I just need to get this horrible course over with.” About a week and a half after I submitted my first book review I got my graded assignment back. Little did I know, that would be the last grade I received until the end of the semester. I didn’t receive a single grade for the rest of the semester. Assignments came and went and I honestly didn’t know if I was passing or not. I mentally prepared myself for the worst and decided that if I could only get an 85, I would be happy. Now, an 85 isn’t a good grade at all in my eyes, but I had to prepare for the worst. Fast-forward to the end of the semester and I get all of my assignments back at once. I was hesitant to look at my final grade. A 94.9. A 94.9? Oh hallelujah! It was the largest relief I had felt in a long time.
I suppose the reason I write this, even though I’m sure there are many out there who really won’t care, is it stress a point. People like feedback. Most things we do in life, we do because we want a response. So, whether you are a teacher who isn’t grading your student’s work or a person who has someone desperately trying to get your attention, do something about it. Not all grades a student gets back will be good and in the same way, your reply to the person trying to get your attention doesn’t have to be the one they are looking for. Instead, just be honest and don’t avoid doing things that can and probably should be done now. It makes life easier in the long run.
I know this has been a very unorthodox post, but it was just something that I needed to put out there. So, if you don’t hear from me before December 25th, have a Merry Christmas!
Mike