---
layout: post
title: Everyday I'm Jekyll'n
---

I've been meaning to convert my blog to Jekyll for awhile now, and I've finally got around to it thanks to [Barry Clark](https://twitter.com/BazNYC) and his fantastic [Smashing Magazine tutorial](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/01/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/). 

Until now, I've been using Wordpress exclusively for content driven sites. While Wordpress outshines most CMS for client sites, its always felt super clunky to me. To be clear, I love Wordpress. It can do some amazing things, and it is largely responsible for how simple it is for the layman to publish content to the web. The world needs Wordpress.

However, as a developer, I've always thought it was a bit too much. I don't need all those bells and whistles, and I hate configuring the hot new security plugin every year. Its just too much of a pain!

## Enter Jekyll

Jekyll is a publishing engine built for hackers. I am most comfortable when I'm in Sublime Text, and can you guess what I'm writing this post in? Here's a quick list of what I like about Jekyll (as opposed to Wordpress)

* I can work in any editor I like
* Writing posts in markdown? Hells yeah
	* There is a [WP plugin](https://github.com/makotokw/wp-gfm) to do this, but its still more involved than using Jekyll
* Static pages are all I really need, and they are fast - especially when assets are cached
* I use Github almost religiously. Having them host my site for free is a no-brainer
* Completely version controlled site with Git, and just `git push` to publish changes? Hell to the yeah!
* Its just plain easier to add/change functionality than custom Wordpress theming. Modular directory structure makes templating pretty easy.

There are plenty of other reasons to use Jekyll, and I'm just scratching the surface. I love what I've been able to do so far, and am super excited to continue hacking away on my new site.
