---
title: East
link: https://medium.com/p/f6f13bd35125
author: jamesbuckland
description: 
created: 2014/09/07
comment_status: open
post_name: east
status: publish
post_type: post
layout: post
---

# East

It’s 4:38am on a Saturday night in early September, 2014. I only seem to write these sorts of things when I can’t sleep, I think. That’s alright. The words flow more easily now than ever before.

When I can’t sleep I think about the future, which is a major bummer. Not because the future is a major bummer, but because thinking about things that you want to do while you know you’re supposed to be relaxing and going to sleep is like tearing a phone book in half. It revs up my engines and tells me to get started on it.

Sometimes I want to go for long night walks, but it’s getting colder out and I’m running out of pairs of socks. When I look back on this post out of college, it may be important to remind myself that doing laundry is a non-trivial exercise — socks are a finite resource, a non-renewable supply.

Or I’ll think about my parents, and mostly about their jobs and how they used to be and how they could be again, or about the paths their lives have taken; how they knew their own parents and how they’ve come to see me first as an idea, then a task, a chore; a child, a person; maybe an equal.

And my mind is consumed with noise, as my vision lifts up and out of my room: upwards, through the couple fucking upstairs, out the roof of the building and into the clear, deep purple night sky that is the micro-urban community of Chambana; never quite free enough of light pollution to be the majestic skyscape that central Illinois has the potential to be, but still a far cry from my hometown. And certainly nothing like the Northern Lights I may still one day see.

And my vision drifts even more upwards, out from the sky, until I can see the string of lights, like a garland of small, lonely bulbs stretching North by Northwest of Chambana up to Chicago, and then over unto Ohio, Allentown, Jersey, and then Manhattan, skipping over swathes of land as I did, weaving in and out of consciousness, on the Amtrak a little over a year ago. The country collapses like an accordion beneath me, and I can hold New York, my home, my birthplace up on the Hudson River, in my right hand, and stretch out towards Urbana in my left. But I can’t see any further than that, yet.

I’m climbing a set of stairs. I’m at the Might stage; I Might go to study abroad, I Might date again in college, I Might be able to do all the clubs and jobs and social events I want and need to. But they’re not Want or Need yet. Next is I Am.

And then, a twist: my body wheels around and I free-fall back into bed, and I Am falling asleep, and I Am going to Sweden, and I Am striving onwards, east back home, and maybe even then some.