---
layout: post
title: on sass
cover: cover.jpg
date:   2014-09-02 12:00:00
categories: posts
---

I spent the day learning Sass on a more in depth level. I have been playing with Zurb's Foundation for the past few months, which uses Sass, but I have never thoroughly emersed myself in the inner workings of Sass. Here are some of the things I learned about Sass: 

## Variables

Creating variable is simple with Sass. It provides a convenient way to access values that you repeatedly use throughout your styling. for example if i often use the color #3e3e3e, i can set it to a var like so:

<code>
 	$color: #3e3e3e;

 	div {
 		border: 2px solid $color;
  }
<code>

## Mixins + Extend

Mixins are essentially like variable but with more going on. In mixins you can store a whole host of attributs, or even selectors themselves. Creating a mixin does not mean youre using it. Mixins are also capable of taking in arguments to providing additional malleability. In order to emply the mixin you must include it somewhere, using the @include sign. Below is an example of the creation and usage of a mixin with your stylesheet:

<code>
	@mixin my_mixin($a_color) {
		background-color: $a_color;
	}

	.random-class {
		@include my_mixin(#fff);
	}
<code>

## nesting & ampersand

Nesting is a dope way for you to congregate all your styles for a particular element and its children in a single area. One can also include media queries in a nested form. This allows you to look at your stylesheet in just one place and determine how that element will look under different scenarios. 

Nesting also provides you with the ampersand function which essentially allows you to add deeper nesting while maintaining the current scope. for example:

<code>
	div {
		a {
			color: blue;
		}
	}

<code>



In this lign of styling we are selecting any link tag within a div, or in css, it would be selecting for: 'div a'. Now below we are increasing the specificity and then adding the same scope. so:




<code>
	div {
		a {
			color: blue;

			.nav & {
				color: red;
			}
		}
	}
<code>

We've stated here that color should be blue for all 'div a' relationships. but if there's a relationship of '.nav div a' then the color should be red. 