---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Update 2015-06-29 (stable)
---

We are happy to announce our **second update** for Manjaro 0.8.13.

This time we updated again almost all kernels we support. Finally we have **Linux 4.1.0 LTS** in the pack. With **Budgie 8.2** we offer you another way to use your computer with a nice lightweight GTK3 desktop similar to Gnome.

We pulled some needed patches into **Octopi 0.7.0**, which is mostly used by our KDE editions. We also went nuts to fix issues in our steam client. Cinnamon, Xfce and Mate received regular updates. On the python-side most of the plugins got refreshes. 

One of the biggest success we had this week is the release of **manjaro-tools 0.9.9**. If you use custom profiles to create your install medias, we suggest to read our readme files for changes we made to the structure of our profiles.

SystemD 221 got some patches added, yaourt-gui got updated, such as kmod to 21.

Last but not least: Calamares made it to another stable release. To test out [**Calamares 1.1**](https://calamares.io), please download our almost daily built [0.9.0-dev](http://sourceforge.net/projects/manjarotest/files/0.9.0/xfce-minimal/0.9.0-dev/).

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our stable branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](url=https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/).

As regular, this update includes also regular Archlinux upstream fixes (Sun Jun 28 09:51:23 CEST 2015).

Please give us feedback and report any findings with this update.

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

Note:

If you're using OpenRC, please read followed [thread](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=23764.0).

----

## Current supported kernels

* Linux310 3.10.81
* Linux312 3.12.44
* Linux313 3.13.11.22
* Linux314 3.14.45
* Linux316 3.16.7.13
* Linux318 3.18.15
* Linux319 3.19.8.2
* Linux40  4.0.6
* Linux41  4.1.0

----

## Package changes

* community i686:  125 new and 123 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  128 new and 126 removed package(s)
* core i686:  31 new and 32 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  31 new and 32 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  92 new and 95 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  92 new and 95 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  10 new and 7 removed package(s)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=23921.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20150629/003549.html)
