---
layout: post
title:  Update Week 5
date:   2015-03-18 13:57:00
categories: biofactory update 2015-3
---

Hello everyone,

Fully packed incubators and surrounded by project boxes I am writing you this week's update. We have an exciting week ahead of us, making our first steps towards isolating biomaterials using centrifugation and chromatography.

# Schedule for next Monday and Tuesday

Monday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-11:30 DNA extraction
11:30-11:45 Coffee break
11:45-12:45 Chloroplast isolation
12:45-13:45 Lunch break
13:45-14:45 Chromatography
13:45-18:00 Open lab, time to work on your projects and assignments

Tuesday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-12:30 Centrifuge construction and help with electronics
12:30-13:30 Lunch break
13:30-14:30 Assignment meeting
14:30-18:00 Open Lab
19:00-21:00 Class 6: Magnetic Stirrer

# Assigment 
This week you have only one assignment:

1) Start sketching your bioreactor controller in Fritzing. 

The challenge for you is to submerge yourself into Fritzing. A bioreactor controller typically consists of the following parts: Temperature sensor, Heater, pH sensor, Stirrer, Substrate pump (for Fed Batch or Chemostat), Acid or Base pump, Optical sensor and Light sensor / switch. 

# Spectrometers
We made two designs for the spectrometer. One based on a webcam hack, that is relatively easy, and a second based on a CCD Array that's linked to an Arduino. The former is relatively easy, while the latter is more suitable for hard core Arduino freaks.

http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/7-spectrometer/

You may now order the components as listed in the Bill of Materials.

# Slides & videos 
As usual the video of yesterday's lecture can be found on Vimeo. 
https://vimeo.com/channels/biohackacademy
http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/5-centrifuge/

See you next week,

The BHA Team
