---
layout: post
title: "Some History Part 2: The Business Years"
---

Part of the consequences of the tech bubble, besides my computing industry views, was that stocks and investments were really exciting. Of course I only saw the upside at that time and didn't realize that a lot of people could lose a lot of money... until I did. 


## First investment

It was the height of the tech bubble, but all I knew was AOL was so cool. Being able to go online with the whirling and whizzing of hard drives and modems was such a foreign but interesting experience as a child. That and all we got in the mail was AOL and Compuserve CDs! 

I loved the company and idea too much to not own a piece of it myself. With my tiny little savings through the years, I told my parents I wanted to buy 1 share of AOL for $100. 

Time passed and I didn't pay attention to what was happening in the stock market. My parents bought a new minivan with their Microsoft profits and we moved into a new house. Only later did I realize that there was a crash; 9/11 was more important to me than tech valuations and Enron. 

We ended up collected those AOL CDs and even brought them over to our new house to decorate the basement we were finishing. It's now a humbling reminder of grandiose and irrational times. 


## Formal training

Though it wasn't much money, I vowed to not lose money again. I started attending BusinessWeek information seminars that my dad got invited to. They were trying to sell their services, but we would just use their free trial period to find interesting companies. 

I still knew nothing then but it spawned an interest that led me to business school. I figured all these people that made a lot of money ought to know what they're doing. It seemed to be a dynamic industry and every company needed a finance function. You can't go wrong right?

Read on in [Part 3] (/history-3/).