---
layout: post
title: How to add a Favicon to a Jekyll blog...  15/11/2015
---

2 weeks ago I didn’t even know what a favicon was. Through lots of googling, I found out that it actually plays a big role in the look and feel of your website/blog. Today I’m going to bring everything I found and my experiences with it into one place.

## What is a Favicon.

>  “an icon associated with a particular website, typically displayed in the address bar of a browser accessing the site or next to the site name in a user's list of bookmarks.”  

[www.favicon.co.uk/whatisfavicon.php]( http://www.favicon.co.uk/whatisfavicon.php). This is a really good website to explain it better. I don’t plan on writing lengthy blogs to explain little things like some guys do. I give you the information you need and the option to find more if you need to. So in recap it’s the little blue F on your phone that takes you to Facebook. Or the Twitter symbol on your bookmarks bar. It is the image that makes your website easily recognizable. So pretty important. If you don’t have one you just have a little piece of paper there, that says to the reader I’m not taking it seriously enough to sort this yet. 

If you are getting ready to build a favicon and use it on your website, whilst reading this post. Then I suggest finding or making an image now that suits your needs. Bold bright and something that identifies with your website /blog. I am also assuming you are using Github to publish your blog/website.

## How to Make a Favicon

First things first, we need to make a favicon. But the only hitch is for every different browser or device, a different size favicon is needed to optimize its potential. That sounds like a lot of work right. WRONG!!! There are many experienced coders who have invented great software to help us. [http://realfavicongenerator.net/](http://realfavicongenerator.net/) is a great website that does it all for you. Follow the instructions. Upload the photo, personalize your favicon and the settings. Once you hit the next page then you download your 32 different sized .ico images and place them in a /favicons folder within your root directory. Then copy and paste some code to your html and you’re done.  This method gets very tricky when trying to use Jekyll, so for now we will just use a single .PNG image.

> "Portable Network Graphics PNG is a raster graphics file format that supports lossless data compression.  and is the most used lossless image compression format on the Internet"

If you turn your image into a .PNG image it will suit most devices/browsers until you have more time and knowhow to have an individual favicon for every device/browser. Luckily enough there is a website for that too. [http://www.favikon.com/](http://www.favikon.com/). easy peasy, this literally took me 2 mins. I was surprised at how easy it was. 4 simple steps.

1. Upload image
2. Crop image
3. Click download .PNG
4. Move favicon.PNG file to your images folder for your Github repository i.e. username.github.io/images 

DONE!!! You’ve just made your own favicon, now to put it into you website.

## How to add a Favicon to a Jekyll blog/website.

I’ve added a few favicons to a few web pages now, but adding one to Jekyll is a little different. In a normal webpage you would link from your index.html inside the < head > tags, to your images folder, where it would find your favicon image. Providing your using a .png file and followed my steps this is what HTML you’d need.

 <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/png" href="Images/favicon.png" />

 But if you are using Jekyll to build your blog then you can’t just tell it to go to the images folder because it would give your homepage a favicon, but no other pages i.e. posts or your about page. This is uncharted territory for me as I haven’t found any posts about favicons and Jekyll so I will try my best to explain it. 

 Jekyll uses a default HTML and CSS file along with your post file. It combines all 3 and builds you a webpage, saving a lot of time with every post. So if you tell it to go to the images file to find the favicon.png it will find it for the first page that you are hosting from Github but not for every post that it makes on the fly. To get around this you have to put in a small piece of code before the /images/favicon.png at the end. {{site.baseurl}} Which makes it search for the images folder in your root directory which is your static URL.  so just input this into your <head> tags and you should be good to go.

 <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/png” href="{{ site.baseurl }}/favicons/favicon.ico">

 Well that was a very long winded and deeper post than I thought it was going to be. It’s only a tiny image after all. I’ve learnt so much just writing this post. I don’t want to get anything wrong, but this is just what I’m using and its working for me. Please feel free to comment if you’ve found any better ways for me to do things. It can only help me on my journey. 

Remember I said I was going to learn ruby and find out how to build a Jekyll blog properly I think that’s next if I want to view my webpages locally. So I don’t have to commit my changes every time.

See you on the next one.
