---
layout: post
title:  Update Week 8
date:   2015-04-09 13:57:00
categories: biofactory update 2015-4
---

Dear BioHackers,

Just two more weeks until the Graduation Show! So it's time to make your final designs and complete your experiments. In order to give you as much room for that as possible, we will not have any group workshops anymore apart from the regular lecture. 

We will also send you a separate email with more details on the graduation show shortly.

# Schedule for next Monday and Tuesday

Monday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-18:00 Open Lab: do your final tests and experiments

Tuesday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-12:30 Open Lab
12:30-13:30 Lunch break
13:30-14:30 BHA Truth Booth
14:30-18:00 Open Lab
19:00-21:00 Class 9: Bioreactor Controller

# BHA Truth Booth

Let's be honoust, most of us find documentation boring and tedious. So let's hack that! 
On Tuesday we will set up a "BioHack Academy Truth Booth". A small video studio in which you can "confess" your hacks in 1 minute. So don't forget to bring along what you want to show. The videos will be published in the BioHack Academy Vimeo channel and used during the ceremony.

# Adam Brown

On Tuesday evening Adam Brown will present his work. He is well know for conducting experiments with gold harvesting microbes and his attempts to redo amino acid synthesis experiments using basic elements and lightning. 

# Assignment / Documentation

Your assignment is to work on the documentation of the project. Please answer the following questions on your documentation site:

* What does the reactor do? What product has been made?
* From what designs is it derived?
* Which parts have been custom made, by what machine?
* What are all the components and how much do they cost?
* How is it assembled?
* What can be improved?

# Slides & videos 
The slides of this week's lecture can be found as usual in the syllabus:
http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/8-pumps/

The videos can be found in http://www.vimeo.com/biohackacademy

See you next week!

The BHA Team
