---
layout: post
title:  Update Week 4
date:   2015-03-11 13:57:00
categories: biofactory update 2015-3
---

HDear biohackers,

Step by step you are getting closer to building up your labs. I am also really happy to see that you are extending our bio family with the introduction of new species: mycelium, slime molds, E coli and even small nematode worms: the C. elegans. Keep up the good work!

# Schedule for next Monday and Tuesday

Monday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-11:30 Liquid culturing instruction
11:30-11:45 Coffee break
11:45-12:45 Liquid culturing practical
12:45-13:45 Lunch break
13:45-18:00 Open lab, time to work on your projects and assignments

Tuesday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-12:30 Continue with your liquid culture
12:30-13:30 Lunch break
13:30-14:30 Assignment meeting
14:30-18:00 Open Lab
19:00-21:00 Class 5: Centrifuge

# Assigment 
This week you have two assignments:

1) Search for previous projects within the Biohack community that are similar to your project and set up a small reference library on your Github Page.
2) Start growing your organism in a liquid culture. 

We will do assignment 2 together on Monday.

# Magnetic Stirrer
The material list for the magnetic stirrer is now finished. You can go ahead and source the components. 

http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/6-magnetic-stirrer/

# Slides, videos and pictures
The slides of last night's lecture can now be found in the Syllabus. 
Also the video is in the [BioHack Academy Channel](https://vimeo.com/channels/biohackacademy/)
This time we also took some pictures of the lecture and posted it on the [fun page](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/participants/fun-stuff/)

More information about the open source sterile hood that Hany and Veit are building will become available on their blog:
http://waaglfc.tumblr.com

See you next week,

Pieter
