---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Update 2015-08-24 (stable)
---

We are happy to announce our **tenth** update for Manjaro 0.8.13.

With this we updated most of our kernels, **KDE frameworks** to **5.13.0**, **mesa** to **10.6.5**, **virtualbox** to **5.0.2**, fixed some issues with our steam client and renewed our KDE theme Maia. This new look will be included in our Manjaro 2015.09 release. Some work went into consolekit and the development branch of Calamares.

**Pamac** now truly has AUR optional, plus features many new options in a new preferences dialog with :

* enable/disable check for updates (which enable/disable pamac-tray)
* hide or not the tray icon when no update available
* new menu to choose upgrades to ignore
* official repos tab is hidden when pacman-mirrorlist is not installed
* new button to refresh mirrors list
* AUR support disable if yaourt is not installed
* enable/disable check updates from AUR
* enable/disable confirmation when building packages (--noconfirm)

This update also includes the usual Archlinux upstream fixes (Sun Aug 23 09:39:42 CEST 2015).

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our stable branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/).


Please give us feedback and report any findings with this update.

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

## Current supported kernels

* Linux310 3.10.87
* Linux312 3.12.46
* Linux313 3.13.11.25
* Linux314 3.14.51
* Linux316 3.16.7.16
* Linux318 3.18.20
* Linux319 3.19.8.5
* Linux40  4.0.9 (EOL)
* Linux41  4.1.6
* Linux42  4.2-rc7

----

## Package changes

* community i686:  101 new and 107 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  102 new and 108 removed package(s)
* core i686:  21 new and 21 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  21 new and 21 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  221 new and 209 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  221 new and 209 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  8 new and 7 removed package(s)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=25485.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20150824/003996.html)
