---
layout: post
title:  Update Week 2
date:   2015-02-25 13:57:00
categories: biofactory update 2015-2
---

Hi everyone,

We hope you enjoyed the second lecture! You now know what cells are made of, and how to engineer your own devices to take a closer look.

The past two days I already saw great hacks of the original incubator design. Triple in size, transparent, remote controlled and speakers, keep up that great work! We look forward to your mad microscopes! 

Don't forget to submit your prototypes to 'proud-to-hack' sites like www.hackaday.com 

# Slides of tonight's lecture
PDF files of the slides of tonight's lecture can now be found in the Syllabus: 
[Microscope](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/2-microscope/)

It is certainly worth it to take a look at the videos that Lucas linked in his slides.

Also, I have attached a spreadsheet with the formulas and calculations for designing your own microscope from lenses.

# Schedule for Monday and Tuesday
On Monday and Tuesday we will demonstrate the microscopy techniques and 2 staining methodologies. The schedule is in the PDF attached to this email.

During the Openlab session we will also offer an Arduino introduction workshop for those of you that need extra support on electronics and programming.

# Materials for the Sterile Hood
In two weeks we will build our own Sterile Hoods. The recommended material list is finalized: [Sterile Hood](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/4-sterile-hood/)

# Fun stuff
Having fun in the Academy? Share your picture / video / story on the fun page! Take a look at the pictures of our first lecture and from Brasil posted here:
[Fun Stuff](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/participants/fun-stuff/)

# Last week's assignment
Please send us your documentation site, once you have set it up. We will add a link to the list. Use your site to share your designs and keep track of experiments:
[Documentation sites](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/participants/documentation/)

# This week's assignment
Publish your microscopy video along with a license you find most appropriate on your documentation site. Obviously we would recommend using a Creative Commons license.

# BioHack Academy video channel
All the lectures are recorded and made available as quickly as we can in the [Biohack Academy channel](https://vimeo.com/channels/880445).

We expect to upload tonight's lecture around tomorrow by the end of the day.

All the best, and have fun hacking!

The Biohack Academy Team