---
layout: post
title: "Some History Part 1: The Early/Gaming Years"
---

Like all great stories, it all started when I grew up playing games. I was born soon after the Nintendo was released and I loved Super Mario/Duck Hunt and Dig Dug on a random Apple ][ computer... until it broke one day. 

I was fascinated with these ethereal worlds inside a box. Thus began my interest in technology, computers, and games. 


## Tech bubble times

In 5th grade, I remember geeking out, with the only other person that was interested in computers, Windows, and Intel. We made a class presentation with a combination of MMX technology and random things we made up. It was a ton of fun!

I played chess during lunchtime and during recess I would play Kickball, philosophize, and talk to a friend about how his parents made a lot of money on Oracle stock. 

Fast forward a few years and I'm in school learning how to type on an Apple IIe and play Oregon Trail. 

Games got me off track for a while. They were a lot of fun; lots of things to analyze and optimize. RPGs, fighting games, and Starcraft all took a lot of time, but in the end I gained a lot of skills that I wouldn't have had otherwise. Chess and pool taught me to think ahead, RPGs taught me about optimization and risk management. 

## Then the tech bubble burst

I didn't know it at the time. If anything I was more worried about Y2K (I literally bought a radio-controlled car instead of a Diablo II game because I was worried about computers! And then the 9/11 terrorist attacks. What I did hear was how people were losing jobs. 

I decided that pursuing a tech career was too risky...

Read on in [Part 2] (/history-2/).