---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Update 2015-02-26 (stable)
---

We are happy to announce our **third** update for Manjaro 0.8.12.

**XFCE 4.12** is around the corner. We have it already. We got the latest sources and squeezed them in our repositories. 

Thunar file manager finally supports tabs and other cool features like inverting the selection, improves on location handling and the shortcuts side pane. On the panel we have now a popup calendar and support for timezones. The settings area has improved display settings with the ability to clone displays via the GUI and other basic monitor management options. Last but not least, the window manager has smart placement optimizations for determining the best area to place a new window where it’s least covered on the screen. It also now supports alinging windows next to each other rather than using random gaps.

Much work went also in our tools. We now official **depreciating manjaroiso**. From now on our new tool-set **manjaro-tools** takes over and replaces also devtools. Big thx flies out to Marcus, who worked so hard to get it done. It is easy to use and has lots of features. One of the cool ones is the timer-function. Now you know how long a package or install-media took to be compiled on your system. Also all log files get nicely packed into a tarball.

Wait, there is even more. Both of our graphical package managers got updates. We can now present to you **Octopi 0.6.0**. Some of its new features we want to mention:

* cachecleaner, a frontend to 'paccache'
* new KDE detection logic
* refactorings in SearchLineEdit
* opens install local pkg when you associate octopi to pacman files
* update translations

Also **Pamac 2.1.2** got some nice improvements:

* prevent from AUR errors
* make updater to use daemon to get updates
* improve updater ui
* fix possible conflict between tray and updater
* update translations

How can we top this even more? Well we added another point-release of **BSDs Lumia desktop**. Version **0.8.2** is mainly a “spit-and-polish” release: focusing on bugfixes, overall appearances, and interface layout/design. Maybe someone picks it up and creates a Manjaro-Spin with it ...

Also **Budgie-Desktop** got updated to **8.1**. This version includes our logout-fix.

Kernel-wise we added linux312 3.12.38, linux313 3.13.11.16, linux316 3.16.7.7. Some drivers got updated, including Nvidia 346.47. We upgraded firefox and firefox-kde to 36.0. Same goes for thunderbird (31.5.0).

Since Arch Linux already uses xorg-server 1.17.1 we added the current server from 1.16-series to our overlay repositories. This includes also regular Archlinux upstream fixes (**Feb 24 17:24:06 CET 2015**).

Please give us feedback and report any findings with this update.

Kind regards,
Manjaro Development Team

----

## Current supported kernels
* Linux310 3.10.69
* Linux312 3.12.38
* Linux313 3.13.11.16
* Linux314 3.14.33
* Linux316 3.16.7.7
* Linux318 3.18.7
* Linux319 3.19.0

----

## Package changes
* community i686:  346 new and 344 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  347 new and 345 removed package(s)
* core i686:  21 new and 22 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  21 new and 22 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  512 new and 507 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  512 new and 507 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  12 new and 15 removed package(s)

----

## Troubleshooting

[Manjaro KDE5 0.9.0-dev - kdepimlibs-frameworks issue](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=20458.0)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=20874.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20150223/002702.html)
