---
layout: post
title:  Update Week 9
date:   2015-04-19 13:57:00
categories: biofactory update 2015-4
---

Hello everyone,

Are you getting nervous for the Graduation Show yet? In just one more week the BioHack Academy will be over. We hope you feel ready to spread your wings and take off into the wonderful biohacking world on your own. Over the next few days we will review your documentation sites and give you some final instructions during the Show before you fly out.

# Schedule for next Monday and Tuesday

Monday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-18:00 Open Lab

Tuesday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-16:00 Open Lab
16:00-17:00 Lab Clean up
19:00-late: Graduation Show

# Graduation Show 

The Graduation Show is open to the public, so please feel most welcome to invite your friends and family to take a look at your hacks and be proud of you: https://waag.org/en/event/biohack-academy-graduation-show

# Tessel's Questionare

May I please remind you that Tessel is still expecting a filled in questionare forms from some of you.

# Continuing your work at the lab

A number of you have indicated an interest in continuing your work at the Wetlab after the BHA is over. We estimated that we can facilitate another 8 weeks of hacking (2 days a week) for 500 euros. For that to work we do need a minimum number of 4 people. So please send me an email if you want to be one of those.

# Documentation

Please make sure you answer the following questions as much as possible in your documentation:

* What does the reactor do? What product has been made?
* From what designs is it derived?
* Which parts have been custom made, by what machine?
* What are all the components and how much do they cost?
* How is it assembled?
* What can be improved?

All the best,

The BHA Team
