---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Update 2015-11-09 (stable)
---

We are happy to announce our **sixth update** for Manjaro 15.09 (Bellatrix)!

With this we updated some of our kernels, firefox, mate, calligra, libreoffice steam and did bunch of rebuilds against libsodium, icu, poppler.

The headline changes in MATE 1.12 are:

* Fixes and improvements for GTK3 support across the entire MATE Desktop including GTK 3.18 support.
* Touchpad support is significantly improved and now features multi touch and natural scrolling.
* Multi monitor support has been improved so the display settings use output names and the revised UI lets you set the primary monitor.
* The power applet now displays model and vendor information so you can distinguish between multiple battery powered devices.
* Improved session management which now includes screensaver inhibition while playing media.
* MATE now listens to the org.gnome.SessionManager namespace.
* Extended systemd support.
* Long standing bugs and many little usability paper-cuts were fixed. For example, panel applets are no longer reordered when changing screen resolutions.
* Translations updated and a number of components now retrieve strings directly from gschema (requires intltool 0.50.1).

Also we ship the usual Archlinux upstream fixes (Sun Nov 8 08:15:53 CET 2015).

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/).

Please give us feedback and report any findings with this update.

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

## Current supported kernels

* Linux310 3.10.92
* Linux312 3.12.50
* Linux313 3.13.11.29
* Linux314 3.14.56
* Linux316 3.16.7.19
* Linux318 3.18.24
* Linux319 3.19.8.9
* Linux41  4.1.12
* Linux42  4.2.5
* Linux43  4.3.0

----

## Package changes

* community i686:  634 new and 548 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  637 new and 549 removed package(s)
* core i686:  21 new and 21 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  21 new and 21 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  527 new and 519 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  527 new and 519 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  9 new and 9 removed package(s)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=28182.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20151109/004865.html)
