---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Update 2015-11-23 (stable)
---

We are happy to announce our **seventh update** for Manjaro 15.09 (Bellatrix)!

Some of you might have noticed that it took now one week longer to prepare this update pack. Well, some claimed that updating our stable-branch every week on Monday might hold back some of you from switching over to 'testing'. Also some think that having this update speed makes 'stable' not as best tested as in waiting for another week by getting more feedback from everybody having 'testing' on their boxes. Well, their feedback was good, so here you have it:

Most of our kernels got updated. KDE-Plasma ships now in version 5.4.3, KDE-Apps got updated to 15.08.3, KDE Frameworks to 5.16.0. We also added Cinnamon 2.8 to our overlay repositories, the final build of octopi 0.8 and last but not least we updated Gnome to 3.18.2. Mesa is now at 11.0.6 fixing some issues upstream had found. Bumblebee got adopted to some upstream changes by Archlinux. Report back if you have now issues due these changes.

Bernhard is working hard to get Deepin ready for primetime. Some of his packages you can find now in our stable branch. However it is better to switch over to 'testing' and helping him by giving some feedback. Also we ship the usual Archlinux upstream fixes (Fri Nov 20 10:36:35 CET 2015)

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/).

Please give us feedback and report any findings with this update.

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

## Current supported kernels

*  Linux310 3.10.93
*  Linux312 3.12.50
*  Linux313 3.13.11.30
*  Linux314 3.14.57
*  Linux316 3.16.7.20
*  Linux318 3.18.24
*  Linux319 3.19.8.10
*  Linux41  4.1.13
*  Linux42  4.2.6
*  Linux43  4.3.0

----

## Package changes

* community i686:  372 new and 296 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  373 new and 298 removed package(s)
* core i686:  29 new and 29 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  29 new and 29 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  689 new and 689 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  689 new and 689 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  15 new and 17 removed package(s)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=28543.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20151123/004956.html)
