---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Linux 15.12-rc2 released
---

I'm happy to announce the second release candidate of Manjaro 15.12 (Capella)!

This is one of the biggest updates we did so far. Mostly due the C++ 11 ABI change within gcc. It is recommended to rebuild your AUR packages for this ABI. With this we finally dropping Plasma 4 for good. All users of this desktop should either switch over to Plasma 5 or any other maintained desktop, like LXQt.

So what changed? We have now Plasma 5.5 with all its goodies, updated Mesa, LibreOffice 4 and 5 series. Firefox 43 is using now GTK3. You might need to check your themes if you have unwanted graphical issues due this change. However we fixed Menda, so you should be fine with that theme. 

Most of our kernels got updated to the latest point release. Kernel 4.2 gained extended stable support from Canonical. Bumblebee uses now the group 'bumblebee' for the X-Server. Your user should been added to this group automatically. Wine got its 4th release candidate and is now pretty stable. We renewed some features of Manjaro-Settings-Manager and changed our profile structure of our manjaro-tools. Maintainers of Manjaro Install Medias should adopt to this new style.

Archlinux upstream fixes are now from: Thu Dec 17 10:11:19 CET 2015.

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our stable branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages).

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

## Current supported kernels

* Linux310 3.10.94
* Linux312 3.12.51
* Linux313 3.13.11.31
* Linux314 3.14.58
* Linux316 3.16.7.21
* Linux318 3.18.25
* Linux319 3.19.8.11
* Linux41  4.1.15
* Linux42  4.2.8
* Linux43  4.3.3
* Linux44  4.4-rc5

----

## Package changes

* community i686:  1505 new and 1527 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  1503 new and 1524 removed package(s)
* core i686:  57 new and 58 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  57 new and 58 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  1253 new and 1344 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  1254 new and 1345 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  70 new and 69 removed package(s)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=29156.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20151214/005269.html)
* [Download](http://manjaro.github.io/download/)
