---
layout: post
title:  Update Week 7
date:   2015-04-01 13:57:00
categories: biofactory update 2015-4
---

Hello BioHackers,

Next week starts with a day off, the lab will be closed on Monday. On Tuesday we will catch up again and do our final group workshop, derived from a well know chemistry magic trick.

Let me remind you that as we move closer towards to end of the course, the use of the laser cutter can become a bottleneck for producing your designs. Please reserve a timeslot that you need in the Google Calendar.

# Schedule for next Monday and Tuesday

Monday:

2nd Easter Day - Lab closed

Tuesday:

10:00-10:30 Doors open
10:30-12:30 Iodine Clock Reaction spectrometry workshop
12:30-13:30 Lunch break
13:30-14:30 Assignment meeting
14:30-18:00 Open Lab
19:00-21:00 Class 8: Pumps

# Adam Brown

Lucas announced last night that on April 14th Adam Brown will give a presentation during the weekly lecture. He is well know for conducting experiments with gold harvesting microbes and his attempts to redo amino acid synthesis experiments using basic elements and lightning. 

# Assignment 

Your assignment is to hack the spectrometer. Our suggestions would be to turn it into a flow spectrometer, add a user interface on the device itself, calibrate it with lasers and in Barcelona they decided to switch the white LED for a specific wavelenght like 660 nm for doing specific measurements.

# Slides & videos 
We uploaded the slides as usual to the syllabus:
http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/7-spectrometer/

See you next week, we wish you a happy easter!

The BHA Team
