---
layout: post
title:  Update Week 1
date:   2015-02-18 13:57:00
categories: biofactory update 2015-2
---

Hello everyone,

Thank you very much for joining the excellent session we had yesterday. It was really great to meet you all finally and get to know you a little bit. 

# Assignment

As said during the lecture, you will get an assignment every week. The first assignment is to set up a documentation site. We recommend you to use Github, because it helps you by sharing design files easily and keep track of versions. Some instructions on how to get started can be found in this slide deck:
[Documentation](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/1/pdf/4%20Documentation.pdf)

> Please send me a link to your documentation site. I will create a page to collect all links on the Syllabus.

# Preparing for the practicals

On Monday we will start with the practicals. There are 3 practical guides that you may choose from listed in the Syllabus, about yeast, bacteria and contamination:
[Class 1](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/1-incubator/)

Apart from that you may also start immediately with growing your favorite microbe. Pick one from the culture collection and try to read up on what kind of nutrients and growth conditions the microbe needs:
[Culture Collection](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/annex/culture-collection/)

# Reserving the machines

In order to construct the devices, you will probably need to cut wood or plastic. The lasercutter of our FabLab is reserve don Monday’s and Tuesday’s for that. Please use this public Google Calendar to block chunks of half an hour.
[Calendar](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/annex/machine-equipment-guide/)

# Studying the slides

In yesterday’s presentation contained a number of valuable examples for making your own electronical circuits. You might like to take another look.

The slides of yesterday’s session can be found in the Syllabus, each topic under the heading "Schedule" now links to a PDF:
[Schedule](http://biohackacademy.github.io/biofactory/class/1-incubator/)

The videos take a bit more effort to edit, but will also be made available soon.

# Next week’s lecture

Next week’s lecture will be centered around microscopy and we will learn more about microbial physiology and nutrients. Coffee and tea will be waiting for you from 18:30h and we will start the lecture at 19:00h.

All the best,

Maria, Hany, Lucas, Veit and Pieter