---
layout: post
title: Manjaro 16.06 - second release candidate released
---

We are happy to publish our second release candidate of our upcoming stable release we call Daniella.

Works went into OpenRC, manjaro-tools and our graphical installers. Calamares should now start faster than before and starts now also in Deepin and Gnome. In Thus we fixed some small issues. Pamac got updated to v4.1 and added a progressbar to visualize the current ongoing task better. The Andromeda theme got some new icons and manjaro-tools supports 3rd-party repositories once again. After a little struggle we decided to maintain MATE on our own, since Archlinux has no active maintainer anymore for this destkop environment.

The headline changes in MATE 1.14 are:

* Improved GTK+3 support across the entire MATE Desktop.
* Full GTK 3.20 support in all MATE themes.
* Client Side Decorated applications render correctly in all themes.
* Completely ported MATE System Monitor and Mozo to GTK+3 only (we ship v1.12 for gtk2 branch).
* Touchpad configuration now supports edge and two-finger scrolling independently.
* Python extensions in Caja can now be managed separately.
* All three window focus modes are selectable.
* MATE Panel now has the ability to change icon sizes for menubar and menu items.
* MATE NetSpeed Applet has been merged into the MATE Applets package.
* MATE Terminal support VTE 2.91 API when built for GTK+3.
* Volume and Brightness OSD can now be enabled/disabled.
* Translations are updated.

Archlinux upstream fixes are now from: Tue May 29 16:58:34 CEST 2016.

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our stable branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/). Full details on the package changes can been found [here](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/philmmanjaro/705c52033ea77fbfedbe170f45f038cb/raw/31ff013de3e824a411b971fa2e537278417d32d6/stable-2016-05-29.txt).

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

## Links

* [Download here](http://manjaro.github.io/download/)
* [Talk about packages](https://forum.manjaro.org/t/stable-update-2016-05-29-mate-kernels-calamares-python/2679)
* [Release plan](https://github.com/manjaro/release-plan) - request a change/feature [here](https://github.com/manjaro/release-plan/issues)
