---
layout: post
title: Research Project Update 
author: dkomarovo
---

After elaborating on the topics introduced in my research project ideas list (Sept. 19th), I have decided to conduct my Digital Humanities research project by asking the following question: How does Internet usage impact the digital divide in South Korea? Because South Korea is famous for having the fastest average internet speed per capita, it is an especially intriguing country to research further on.  In a recent United Nations e-government survey, using the E–Government Development Index, South Korea is ranked first with an index value of 0.9462. Indexes are measured out of 1.0, which indicates this as being a considerable score for the country overall. As a global leader in technological development, hosting the headquarters of LG , Samsung, and Hyundai, it is a fascinating and lucrative country to research.
 
Use of the Internet has become a prevalent characteristic of South Korean culture. In fact, ”Whether it be searching for information about travel, trading stocks, playing games, browsing entertainment websites, or shopping on-line for services and goods (or e-commerce), South Koreans are among the most active users of these Internet activities each and every day.” (Rhee, 2004, “Intro”, para. 1). There are some ongoing trends to be observed here. The internet is progressively increasing its economic influence and importance. Internet usage is becoming a greater aspect  in the daily life of South Koreans, and worldwide.

Internet usage has a direct impact on the digital divide present in South Korea. The factors to consider when analyzing the divide include: “Other characteristics, such as age, educational level and perception of the benefits from Internet use proved to be significant factors in Internet adoption as well. But income level (i.e., affordability) has no effect on Internet adoption because the Internet is easily accessible and widely available to the public in South Korea” (Rhee, 2004, “Conclusion”, para. 1). Different categories of individuals of a wide range of ages and educational backgrounds are making use of the internet. Its affordability is enabling more individuals and/or groups to participate. However, those who are not utilzing this resource may be experiencing decreased levels of information, communication, and/or contribution to the economy. They could also be limiting their opportunities for social support programs. The population is most important when dealing with national impact. Though internet usage is only one aspect of the South Korean digital divide, it is gradually creating a generational gap in the country: “The Internet has proven particularly useful in civil society in the course of election campaigns and in mobilizing social movements where periodic social protests and demonstrations in the streets of Seoul are not an uncommon occurrence. However, the disparity in Internet use has produced a widespread digital divide within the country itself. In particular, Internet use and non-use are clearly divided by generation, which leads some to warn of a new and widening generation gap” (Rhee, 2004, “Intro”, para. 1).

Several impacts of the internet in South Korea include: changing attitudes about gender roles in the workplace, increased availibility of English courses in the education system, allowing greater communication in political campaigns, providing for media substitutes and supplements, promoting interaction between federal and  government and the public, rapid economic growth, controversy over positives and negatives associated with online activities, etc.

This article, titled "The Adoption and Use of the Internet in South Korea", is only one of multiple recources I am currently investigating to further develop my research project. I have to continue working on researching different articles, record and/or cite researched footage, commentate over my findings, edit the clips, conduct sound editting, and complete the video artifact.

Works Cited:

Rhee, Kyung Yong, and Wang-Bae Kim. "The Adoption and Use of the Internet in South Korea." Wiley Online Library. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., July 2004. Web. Oct. 2016. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1083-6101.2004.tb00299.x/full>.
