---
layout: post
title: IRL is HAAAARD
author: rsjudka
---


### Start. Stop. Start. Stop.

Just imagine this. You're having a conversation with someone and you realize it is a great conversation so you start writing down everything being said so you can turn it into a book. Within seconds you realized some things: a) you already forgot the first few minutes of the conversation so whatever you write would make no sense, b) you lost more of the conversation because you had to waste time to take your pen and notepad out, and c) all this time realizing what you've missed out on makes you lose even more of the conversation. But whatever, you'll make up the beginning and just start right now! BUT WAIT. You realized you can't write fast enough to keep up with the conversation and also you can't focus on writing and talking at the same time. So in the end everything was a big waste of time and that was another great conversation that missed its chance at a Nobel Prize.

This right here is a very fundamental truth of life, one of which when I get published will win me my very own Nobel Prize! This idea that we can do things in real life is absolutely crazy, and that’s where technology makes things great for us! We can record conversations and play them back in the future so we capture the very last details. We can also slow that recording down even if that is too fast!  

All asides aside (great work choice I know) doing any sort of analysis is a pain in real life, and if you don't believe me try mapping all the conversations in any TV show, you'll have a blast! Even worse, is trying to do multiple forms of analysis at the same time! Let me tell you, its near impossible!

That is where the power of technology and teamwork come in! We can slow down fast action, create buttons to start and stop separate conversations, create a running list of all the males who speak vs all the females and so much more!  And with a team of people, for example a classroom, we can perform multiple analyses (analysi???) and get as accurate as we need to get. *



*This is all speculation done by me since I have not witnessed such power through teamwork. However, I did partake in an analysis session recently for the Pilot episode of Supergirl and will see the results soon, and I will keep you all updated.
 
