---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---
<h3>Week :nine: </h3>
***  
__:question: Questions :question:__  
*1. What did you do this past week?*  
   This past week my team and I got together to figure out how we were going to get mySQL, SQLAlchemy, Carina, and Docker all working together. We also were able to get individual pictures for the crimes pages.   
*2. What's in your way?*  
   Actually implementing what we gathered and writing the tests, as well as fixing a bug we found with our player pages.   
*3. What will you do next week?*  
   We'll be getting it running on docker, write unit tests, and the report.   
***  
   We found that watching tutorials and talking with each other in person helped us to figure out what tools we needed and how we needed to implement it. Piazza was also a useful tool.
   There hasn't been too much of an issue with the projects, but I feel the quizzes in class have really hurt me. Sometimes 3 minutes for 3 (sometimes tricky) questions about material I just learned the class before isn't my favorite, but guess this gets you ready for the feeling of interview questions. It's a blessing and a curse.
  
***  
<h3> Major :key: </h3>  
If y'all have any siblings or know of any middle or high school aged kids, tell them to go to the [Austin Computer Science Fair](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/austin-computer-science-fair-tickets-21627956801?aff=es2) this upcoming Saturday April 9! My organization is volunteering at one of the demonstrations and it's a great way to give kids a chance to see if Computer Science is their thing :)    
