---
title:  "some BASH topics"
date:   2016-12-02
layout: single
author_profile: true
comments: true
tags: [bash]
---


The more I use bash the more I find it interesting. Basically every time I encounter a useful bash commands or when I learn something new about a command, I write them down for future reference. 



Quick links:

- [Regular Expression](#regex) 
- [File Globbing](#globbing)
- [Bash Arrays](#array)
- [find](#find)
- [vim](#vim)
- [grep](#grep)
- [sed](#sed)
- [head,tail](#head)
- [Others](#others)


Online references:

- [GNU/Linux Command-Line Tools Summary](http://www.tldp.org/LDP/GNU-Linux-Tools-Summary/html/book1.htm)

## <a name="regex"></a>Regular Expressions
Regular expressions(REGEX) are sets of characters and/or _metacharacters_ that **match patterns** ---- [REGEX intro](http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/x17129.html).

A REGEX can contain:

- character set, eg: `abcd`
- anchor, eg:`^,$` to match beginning and end of string
- modifiers, eg: `?,\`

**REGEX examples** 
  
- `?`: match any single characters 
- `[abc]`: match any characters enclosed
- `[c-g0-7]`: match letters from c to g, or numbers from 0 to 7
- `[^b-y]`: except 
- `[a1-a2]`: ascii code from `a1` to `a2`
- `[!9]`: NOT 9
- `+`: match one or more if previous char

```bash
echo aaazz | grep "a\+z"
```

- [:upper:] uppercase letters
- [:lower:] lowercase letters
- [:alpha:] alphabetic (letters) meaning upper+lower (both uppercase and lowercase letters)
- [:digit:] numbers in decimal, 0 to 9
- [:alnum:] alphanumeric meaning alpha+digits (any uppercase or lowercase letters or any decimal digits)
- [:space:] whitespace meaning spaces, tabs, newlines and similar
- [:graph:] graphically printable characters excluding space
- [:print:] printable characters including space
- [:punct:] punctuation characters meaning graphical characters minus alpha and digits
- [:cntrl:] control characters meaning non-printable characters
- [:xdigit:] characters that are hexadecimal digits.

Functions such as `awk` and `egrep` provide even richer set of metacharacters.

## <a name="globbing"></a> File Globbing
File Globbing and REGEX can be confusing. REGEX is used in functions for **matching text in files**, while globbing is used by shells to **match file/directory names** using wildcards.

Wildcards (some in REGEX may also apply):

- `*`: match any string
- `{}` is often used to extend list, eg:   
	`ls {a*,b*}` lists files starting with either `a` or `b`.
- []: same as in REGEX

## <a name="array"></a> Bash Arrays

- Arrays can be constructed using round brackets:   
`var=(item0 item1 item2)` or    
`var=($(ls -d ./))`   
- To access items or change item values, we can use `var[index]`. Eg:   
`var[index]=new_value`   
`echo ${var[index]}`   
	Note that when `var` is an array, the name `var` actually only refers to `var[0]`. To refer to the whole array, need to use `var[@]` or `var[*]`.
- sub-array expansion:   
	- `${var[*]:s_ind}`  gives the subarray starting from index `s_ind`.
	- `${var[@]:s_ind:l}` gives you the length `l` sub-array starting at index `s_ind`. 
	- Can also replace `@` with `*`.

## Resolve symbolic links
Say `courses` is a symbolic link I created. If I `cd` this link, and then print working directory:

```bash
$ cd courses 
$ pwd
/Users/lizeng/paths/courses
```
It's showing the symbolic path, not the absolute path. To get the absolute path, we can resolve the link through: 

```bash 
$ pwd -P 
/Users/lizeng/Google Drive/Yale/courses

# same also works for many other commands
$ cd courses; cd ..; pwd
/Users/lizeng/paths 
$ cd courses; cd -P ..;pwd 
/Users/lizeng/Google Drive/Yale
```

The `-P` here stands for `physical` (directory)


## <a name="vim"></a>vim

- In normal mode:	
	all keys are functional keys. Examples are:
	-`p`: paste 	
	- `yy`: copy current row to clip board    
	- `dd`: copy row to clip board and delete    
	- `u (ctrl+R)`: undo (redo) changes	  
	- `hjkl`: left, down, right, up	
	- `:help <command>`: get help on a `command` --- vim open the command txt file	
	- `:wq` or `:x`: `w` for save; `q` for quit 
	- `:q!`: quit without saving

- Insertion:	
	- `o`: insert a new row after current row
	- `O`: insert a new row before current row
	- `a`: insert after cursor

- Cursor movement:		
	- `0, :0`: beginning of row, page
	- `$, :$`: end of row, page	
	- `^`: to first non-blank  character	    
	- `/pattern`: search for pattern (press `n` to go to next)
	- `H,M,L`: move cursor to top, middle and bottom of page    
	- `Ctrl + E,Y`: scroll up, down
	- `Ctrl + u,d`: half page up, down
	- `w,W,e,E,b,B`: jump cursor by words

- Others:		
	-`:syntax on/off` : turn on/off text-highlighting colorscheme


## <a name="find"></a>find
General syntax: 	
`find path -name **** -mtime +1 -newer 20160621 -size +23M ...` 	
We will introduce each of above parameters and some more in this section:

- `find ./ -name "*.txt"` : searching by name	
- `find ./ -type d -name "*LZ*"`: specify target type, `d` for directory, `f` for file.		

- `find ./ -newerct 20130323 (or a file) `:  	
	file created `ct` after the date (also could be a file). can also use `newer` just for modified time 
	
- `find ./ -mtime (-ctime, -atime) +n `:    
	- `m` for modified time
	- `c` for creation time
	- `a` for access time
	- `+n` for greater than n days, similarly `-n` for within n days. Can also change measures

- `find ./ -name "PowerGod*"  -maxdepth 3`:    
	set maximum searching depth in this directory; similarly use `mindepth` to set minimum searching depth
	
- `-iname` : to ignore case

- piping finded results: 	
	`-exec cp {} ~/LZfolder/  \;`: this command will copy the finded files to path `~/LZfolder/`
	- finded file will be placed in the position of `{}` and execute the command


## <a name="grep"></a>grep
`grep` is used for searching lines in a file with certain pattern strings. 	
General formula: `grep pattern filename`    
There are rich parameters you can specify:

- `grep abc$ file`: match the end of a string

- `grep ^F file`: match the beginning of string

- `grep -w over file`: grep for words. 	
	In this example, words such as `overdue, moreover` would be skipped.
	
- `-A3`: also show 3 lines after the lines found

- `-B3`: show 3 lines before found lines

- `-C3`: show 3 lines before and after

- **logical grep**:
  - OR grep:  `grep pattern1|pattern2 filename`
  - AND grep: `grep pattern1.*pattern2 filename`
  - NOT grep: `grep -v pattern filename`   
	where `-v` stands for invert match

## <a name="sed"></a>sed

`sed` is short for _Stream EDitor_	
General formula: 
`sed 's/RegEx/replacement/g'  file`
which will do the work of replacing `RegEx` with `replacement`. 

- the separator `/` could be replaced by something like `_, |`
	- eg: `sed 's | age | year | ' file`, and would still work.

- simple back referencing, eg:	

	```bash
	$echo what | sed 's/wha/&&&/'  # input
	whawhawhat # output
	```

- more on back referencing, eg:
	
	```bash	
	echo 2014-04-01 | sed 's/\(....\)-\(..\)-\(..\)/\1+	\2+\3/'
	2014+04+01
	```

Things in `\(...\)` are referred. A dot $\cdot$ in Regex can signify any character. Useful to use dots to describe patterns.

- you can also `sed` multiple patterns separated by `;`, eg:
	`sed s/pattern1/replace1/;s/pattern2/replace2/g  < file`


## <a name="head"></a> head, tail


## Shell scripting 

### Debugging:	
- `bash (or sh) -v script.sh` : displays each command as the program proceeds
	
- `bash (or sh) -x script.sh` : displays values of variables as program runs



## <a name="others"></a> Others

### **Boolean value**   
You can try : `false; echo $?` The output is `1`, which means in bash shell:   
`1` for `false`   
`0` for `true`

### **Different parenthesis and brackets**  
See  [Parenthesis difference](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2188199/how-to-use-double-or-single-bracket-parentheses-curly-braces).

- **Double parenthesis** (arithmetic operator) :   
	- `((  expr ))` : enables the usage of  things like `<, >, <=` etc. 
	- `echo $(( 5 <= 3 ))`, and we get `0`
	- arithmetic operator interprets `1` as `true`, and `0` as `false`, which is different from the `test` command

### **Braces**
- Used for **parameter expansion**. Can create lists which are often used in loops, eg:
 
```bash
$ echo {00..8..2} 
00 02 04 06 08 
```
		
### **Single and double square brackets**    
Much of below is from [bash brackets](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3427872/whats-the-difference-between-and-in-bash), and [bash test functions](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/l-bash-test/).

- `[ expression ]` is the same as `test expression`. eg:   
	`test -e "$HOME" ` same as `[ -e "$HOME" ]`   
and both of them requires careful handling of escaping characters.

- use `-a, -o` or `||, &&` for group testing. eg:

```bash   
# the following are the same
$ test -e "file1" -a -d "file2"
$ test -e "file1" && test -d "file2"
$ [ -e "file1" ] && [ -d "file2" ]
$ [ -e "file1" -a "file2" ]
```
			
Note that `[ expr1 ] -a [ expr2 ]`, `[ expr1 && expr2 ]` results in error.

- `[[  expression ]]` allows you to use more natural syntax for file and string comparisons. If you want to compare number, it's more common to use double brackets `(( ))`.   
		eg. `[[ -e "file1" && -e "file2" ]]`.   
		`[[ ]]` doesn't support `-a, -o` inside.

### **Quotes**    	
Things inside the same quote are considered as one variable.

- Single quotes: preserves whatever inside
- Double quotes: do not preserve words involving `$ or \` and etc.

	See [Quotes difference](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6697753/difference-between-single-and-double-quotes-in-bash) for more.

### **Environment Variables** 	
- `$PS1`: controls shell prompt
- `$PATH`: when shell receives non-builtin command, it goes into `$PATH` to look for it.
- `$HOME`: home directory

### **Easy command substitute**    
Say my previous command is `vim project.txt`. Now I want to `open` this file instead of using `vim`. Then I can simply input:    

```bash
$ !vim:s/vim/open   
```
where `$` is the shell prompt. Basically this is performing `sed` on whatever the results are from `!vim`.

### **Redirection**    
Bash shell has 3 basic streams: `input(0)`, `output(1)`, and `error(2)`. We can use `#number>` to redirect them to somewhere else, eg:

- Input redirection:    
	- `<` or `0<`   
	- `command << EOF`, and then manually input argument file, using `EOF` to end inputting (or use `ctrl + D`). `<<` is `here document` symbol.   
	-  `command <<< string` : it's `here string` symbol. Can input a one row string argument. 

- output redirection:  
	- `>` or `1>`: redirect output
	- `2>`: redirect error log 
	- `2>1&` : direct stderr to stdout stream, copy where stdout goes. And `1>2&` means vice versa. Here the `>&` is a syntax to pipe one stream to another.
	- `&>  filename`: join stdout and stderr in one stream, and put in a file.

```bash   
# input redirection
$ ./myprog < file1.txt
# output and err redirection
$ ./myprog arg1 > file.out
$ ./myprog arg1 2> file.err
$ ./myprog arg1 &> out_and_err
```
	
- Want no output   
Use `command > /dev/null 2>&1`

### ~/.bash_profile, ~/.profile and ~/.bashrc
These are files where you can personalize commands to be executed upon shell login.

A bash shell would look for `~/.bash_profile` first. If it does not exist, it executes `~/.profile`.

When you start a shell in an existing session (such as screen), you get an interactive, non-login shell. That shell may read configurations in `~/.bashrc`. 

See discussions:    
[login, non-login](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/38175/difference-between-login-shell-and-non-login-shell)   
[different startup files](http://superuser.com/questions/183870/difference-between-bashrc-and-bash-profile)

### **Command substitution**   
If we want to use the output of `command 1` in a sentence, we can do it in the following two ways:

```bash
... ...  `command 1` ... ... #  method 1   
... ... $(command 1)  ... ... # method 2   
```
