---
layout: post
title: Revised Final Project
author: 
- Mschindl301
- jescasa1
---


This week we changed our final project idea. Instead of traking male and female talkers in class, we will be doing text analysis. At first we wanted to change our digital humanities project to something that involved robotics to utilize our team skills the best, but we've unfortunately realized we could never create a research topic that would both be reasonable to research and reasonable to create.

So, our project will involve text analysis. We will be using softwares available online to analysis the differences between old sci-fi and modern sci-fi books. We will research the amount of positive and negative words, as well as what kind of words are used the most.

Though my partner and I do not have any coding experience, besides for robotics code, we will have to use text analysis software that is already available online or through resources in our class. Once we have the data, we should be able to make a very nice graphical representation of the research, as well as a small write up to describe it.

To start the project, we will soon be researching and downloading softwares that can alysis novels and books that we input into it. We will have to see if we have to put them in as a .txt file or a .pdf. Either way we will be able to convert the books back on forth. We are thinking about getting 10 old sci-fi books and 10 new modern sci-fi books to analyze. We are thinking of using books from the late 1800’s and the early 1900’s to analyze, as well as some more modern texts.
