---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Linux 16.06.1 released
---

**Install media description**

We are happy to announce our first point release of Daniella. Since most of you with AMD/ATI hardware were not able to install Manjaro with our original Daniella install media, we took another week of development time to fix the reported issues by you guys.

So what changed:

- we took another look at AMDGPU-MHWD-Config and removed unsupported cards
- we added additional cli-tools to our netinstaller disc
- the themes breeze and maia now support GTK 3.20
- firefox and the kernel got updated to the latest upstream releases

So, if you have already managed to install Manjaro 16.06, then there is no need to reinstall. Simply upgrade your system with one of our package managers. Detailed change log can be found [here](https://sourceforge.net/projects/manjarolinux/files/release/16.06.1/manjaro-16.06-16.06.1-change.log).

---

**Upgrade description**

Seems we did a great release with Manjaro 16.06 so far. After a release is just before the next. Therefore we prepared a new set of packages for you. We updated Firefox to v47, pushed out new kernels for you (note that series v4.5 reached now EOL), fixed a bug with libxcb (steam and such), refreshed some other packages and fixed some bugs in our tools. For more package details click [here](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/philmmanjaro/f9983918a9b1d628b7686266d5a0f47b/raw/a6775496e5ed9ff92018f4b7ee505c78c3431d98/update-2016-06-11.txt).

Archlinux upstream fixes are now from: Sat Jun 11 18:47 CEST 2016.

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

---

**Current supported kernels**

* Linux310 3.10.101
* Linux312 3.12.59
* Linux314 3.14.72
* Linux316 3.16.35
* Linux318 3.18.35
* Linux319 3.19.8.22
* Linux41  4.1.26
* Linux42  4.2.8.11
* Linux44  4.4.13
* Linux45  4.5.7 [EOL]
* Linux46  4.6.2

---

**Package changes**

* community i686:  328 new and 328 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  332 new and 332 removed package(s)
* core i686:  26 new and 25 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  26 new and 25 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  302 new and 302 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  302 new and 302 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  3 new and 3 removed package(s)

---

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/t/stable-release-manjaro-16-06-1/3868)
* [Changelog](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/philmmanjaro/f9983918a9b1d628b7686266d5a0f47b/raw/a6775496e5ed9ff92018f4b7ee505c78c3431d98/update-2016-06-11.txt)
* [Download](http://manjaro.github.io/download/) 
