---
title:  "Git for version control"
date:   2018-2-21
layout: single
author_profile: true
comments: true
tags: [git]
---

Git is a great version control tool. It allows you to keep a history of your code, sync your project online and collaborate with others.

### resource
- Online git simulator and tutorial: [git branching](http://learngitbranching.js.org/)
- git tutorial: [git tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/)
- [A visual git reference](http://marklodato.github.io/visual-git-guide/index-en.html)


## BASIC

- configurations   
 `git config --global user.name "your name"`   
 `git config --global user.email "your.email"`

- initiate a git repository:   
  `cd` into the directory where you want to initiate a git repository, and use `git init`

- chech status of current repository: `git status`.    
  It reports which branch you are on, what files are changed, and which files are not tracked.

- track a file:      
  If you want to keep track of the changes in `file_A`, use `git add file_A`.   

- rename or move a file:      
	`git mv old_file new_file`

- remove a file: `git rm  filename`      
	with this command the file is removed both in repository and in file system.      
	If you just want to remove it from repository, but keep the file in system (simply untrack), use:      
	`git rm --cached filename`    
	

- check the changes in file with last staged version: `git diff filename`       
	changes are marked with `+` or `-`   

- show your commit history: `git log`   

```bash
# show latest n commits
git log -n
# simplified log
git log --oneline
git log --oneline  [--decorate]
```

- use `.gitignore` to specify files to be ignored      
	Usually this kind of files are product files, including but not limited to:   
	      
	- image files
	- pdfs
	- compiled code
	- system files


## Commits

- commit changes:   
	
```bash
	git commit -a -m "commit message" #commit all changes in repository   
	git add changed_file1 changed_file2 # add files to staging area
	git commit -m "commit message" # commit changes in staging area
```
	

- `git show`: can be used to show various objects          
	eg: `git show HEAD` ----- show most recent commit

- change file back to its  older version.   
   `git checkout HEAD filename` 	  
   change file back to its version in `HEAD`. Can replace head with other commits. Without specification of `filename`, the whole repository will be rewired.     

- move current branch to a specified commit (first 7 digits, shown in `git log`):      
   `git reset commit_id`   
   
     See a discussion of `git reset` and `git checkout`: [reset and checkout](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3639342/whats-the-difference-between-git-reset-and-git-checkout).

#### Topics
**save new commits after `git checkout`**   
once you use `git checkout  commit_id`, your head is detached, and you are not on any branch anymore (or you are on an anonymous branch). You can still stage and commit changes, but they won't show up on branch master. 

To be able to keep those changes, you can do:

```bash
# put current changes in a branch: new
git checkout -b new
# merge new with master
git checkout master
git merge new  # may have to manually adjust conflicts
``` 

see illustration [save commits after git-checkout](http://marklodato.github.io/visual-git-guide/index-en.html#detached).


## Branching 
Branching of git is good for modulized work. Assume you have some intermediate product, and you are going to add another feature to it. It's good practice to open up a new branch `new_feature`, work on that branch until your new program passed all kinds tests, and then you can safely merge the `new_feature` branch back to your `master branch`. 
  
This way if anything horrible happens to your `new_feature` code, you can always return to your master branch without worrying that your intermediate product is also messed up.

- check which branch I'm currently on: `git branch`

-  add a new branch:  `git branch new_branch_name`

- switch branch: `git checkout branch_name` 

- merge a new branch to master branch: `git merge branch_name` 

- delete a branch: `git branch -d branch_name`  



## Remote
With `git remote` you can freely transport your own git repository or copy others' git repository.

- clone git from `remote_repository` and put under folder `clone_name`:    
  `git clone remote_repository clone_name`     
  will automatically give the remote repository a name `origin`

- show current remotes:  `git remote -v`

- add a new remote under name `remote_name`:    
	`git remote add remote_name url`
	
- rename a current remote:   
	`git remote rename cur_name new_name`

- change url of a current remote:   
	`git remote set-url remote_name new_url`

- get most recent update from remote (saved in `origin/master` branch) : `git fetch origin`    
	
	If you want to move to the downloaded branch, use `git checkout -- track origin/master`

- push a branch in your repository to a remote repository:   
   `git push remote_name branch_name`   
	which  pushes branch\_name onto remote\_name 




## Collaboration 
Git can make life easier when you are doing collaboration work with other people. You may have a shared repository on Github, and each of your pull the repository to your local laptop, and work on different branches. Here's how you contribute to the online repository:

1.`git fetch` and `git merge` (= `git pull`) changes from the remote

2.Develop the feature on your branch and commit your work

3.`git pull` from the remote again (in case new commits were made while you were working)

4.Push your branch up to the remote for review

At step 3 you can have a problem: after you make changes, the remote repository may have changed (maybe your collaborator has updated it). So `git pull` would fail in this case, unless you resolve the fatal file differences. `git mergetool` becomes very handy for this purpose ([link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/161813/how-to-resolve-merge-conflicts-in-git)).

## Others
- **`git grep string`**:   
	search for `string` in git repository. This is extremely useful when you want to change the name of certain functions or variables, as you can locate which  files contain the things you wanna change. 
	
- **`git commit --amend`**:   
	modify the most recent `git commit` message










