---
layout: post
Title: Snakes in Digital Humanities?
author: tbusch15
---

I don't know who let the python into the class room, and I do not know what to do about it.
And what is it doing analyzing Sherlock Holmes? Watson, a little help here?

So spending as much time on my computer has not really paid off when it comes to what computers are doing today. 
This week we used Python coding software to run a two text analysis and compare them.
I very much felt that my head was as empty as a broken egg shell, and no matter what Libby did on the projector, I was not going to be able to take it home and do it myself.
It was very interesting to see how it all is done, and the actual work behind the simple programs online that one could use to do a text analysis.
Aside from the understanding of how much work it is to do the only other thing I apparently took away was how to point out when my professor made a mistake. *face palm self*
Oh well. I see it as I understood one step, even if it wasn't really a step.

Aside from pointing out my professor's mistakes this week, we also did peer review on one of our selected blog posts. 
I learned that I am still not good as spelling or grammar, but I sort of already knew that.
Otherwise, my peers and myself all agreed each other’s work was quite well.

This then led into what is expected of each of us in class and from our blogs.
My only thought is that if we are talking about what is considered good enough for this course, then we all obviously are not doing good enough as is.
Well if we are all getting this talk, yet all think each other is doing good work, I guess we are all going down together. 
Maybe we can ask the python to do a grade analysis, however I would be too scared to see what letters come back.
