---
layout: post
title: Story of Kiran
---

One evening I was going through all the photos on my phone when I stumbled on the picture dated 07-02-2016 of a shy little girl. The glimpse of her smile and sparkling eyes took me back to that day when she left for her village with her parents and brother.

I met Kiran in August 2015 when I had joined an NGO which worked with underprivileged children. I used to teach there on weekends with many other volunteers. Since all the volunteers were either full-time employed or students, we could take classes only on weekends, which meant learning and retaining lessons for a week after one class for these students was a big challenge and made the learning bit trickier. 

Kiran was one of the students in my class of around 15 children who would sit on blankets in the park. She was eight years old at that time. I vividly remember how she used to wear a red hairclip and red bindi always. On yoga days or sports day, she would wear her lovely red frilled frock. Quite often, she used to bring her little brother (a toddler) along, similar to many other girls who used to escort their younger siblings as they would be trying to study while taking care of them. As far as I can recall, she never missed a class, but sometimes she would be late, making an appearance in the middle of the class, while holding her brother from one hand and tightly clutching a notebook and pencil in the other. During a typical class hour, Kiran would sit down with her brother beside herself and with her notebook opened and pencil sharpened. Usually after a while, her brother used to get bored (like any other toddler) and would sneak out to play in the mud.  At that point, she spent her time looking out for her younger brother from a corner of her eye while putting in efforts into learning in the class. 

One day after the class where I taught them to count from 1 to 100, she stayed back after the class and asked me to help her learn "eleven twelve " as she was still struggling with it. We both finally just made up a silly song to help remember this, and it worked. In the next class, she was the only student who had memorized 1 to 100 counting from the last class. She stood proudly in front of the class, teaching her classmates while she hummed that silly tone for eleven and twelve every time. 

Few months had passed by, and it was February 2016. By that time, all the volunteers and students had developed an extraordinary bond with each other. Few of the students had learned at a good pace, while a few needed more attention and practice but were at a better place.  I took a day off one Saturday as I was sick, and my phone rang as a few of my students were asking fellow volunteers why I hadn't joined them. I would be lying if I said it didn't make me feel special that kids missed me. I told them that I was sick and would be there the next day while directing them not to trouble the volunteer who fills in my place.

The next day I reached the class. I got to know that it was Kiran who had pestered volunteers yesterday asking about me. Before I went up to her, she came running towards me. I asked her what was bothering her and started unpacking the whiteboard and markers. While I expected her to complain about another student, she told me that she would leave for her village in the evening. I looked at her with a smile and asked, "Okay! so you are going on a fun vacation! Good good! When will you be back?". She just smiled back. I handed her the marker and asked her to put today's date and subject on the board to start the class.  While she was writing the date, she repeated that she was going to her village.  I told her that I would make sure that she has homework to do on vacation and asked, "So, for how many days should I prepare the assignment for you?". She looked at the ground and mumbled, "I don't know when I will be back." I asked her again, "What do you mean you don't know, haven't your parents told you?" She said, "Papa told us to leave for the village and, I don't know if I will be back."

Her words sent a chill down my spine. I ran out of breath. I couldn't believe what I had just heard. If she didn't know when she would be back, did that mean she would be gone forever? A few moments later, when I grasped the reality, I realized her parents were construction site workers, maybe because of some reason they are now just leaving the city.

Before I could say anything, she said she would miss learning, playing, and classes. My heart sank with those words. I tried to behave like an adult in the conversation, holding back my emotions while I was crashing down. My mind was racing with thoughts, "It wasn't fair. How would she study? What could I do now?"

With that conversation, we started our class for that day. As the classes ended, everyone began to leave for their homes. She stood there wearing her red frilled frock and fixing her gaze onto everything around her at that moment. I went up to her and held her hand. I asked if she would like me to buy her a notebook or chocolate. She smiled and politely said no. Like an idiot who was out of words and thoughts, I asked her what do we do now, and she said I could walk her to her place, a small house in the nearby slum. I held her hands while she showed me directions. As we reached her home, her brother came out running to her. I felt helpless to bid her farewell. I just looked at her and asked her to promise me that she would get enrolled in her village's school and would be the best student there like she was here in my class. She said yes. 