---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---
<h3>Week :one::zero: </h3>
***  
__:question: Questions :question:__  
*1. What did you do this past week?*  
   This past week our team got together and we wrote unit tests, edited the report, and turned in the Project #4 after fixing a couple bugs as well.   
*2. What's in your way?*  
    Currently waiting for Project #5 specs to be released. Also, doing better on the quizzes :/   
*3. What will you do next week?*  
   Our team will most likely meet up this week to go over Project #5 together.      
***  
   Despite the quizzes, the project has gone well. I also started doing codeacademy courses so I can get more time coding because my coding workload has been pretty light. So far, I like the tutorials and they have ones over AngularJS.   
   I also attended the Austin Computer Science Fair today with my fraternity. My friend friend Greg brought in his 3D printer and we demonstrated for high school and middle school kids. It's always cool to hear kids talk about what they know about Computer Science or answering questions they don't. Also, these events bring lots of teachers and you hear about Computer Science groups through out the district.   
  
***  
<h3> Major :key: </h3>  
I'm going to use this week's tip of the week in order to put in a plug for [CoderDojo](http://coderdojorr.weebly.com/) in Round Rock. It's FREE for kids ages 1-17.

CoderDojo Round Rock is a <b>free</b>, volunteer led club where children ages 7 - 17 learn programming, web/game/app development and more in an informal, collaborative and supportive environment. Our mission is to increase computer science literacy and interest in STEM among youth in the Round Rock-Austin area. Mentors are available at every session to guide and help kids further their knowledge. Peer-to-peer mentoring and sharing is highly encouraged too.   
