---
layout: post
title: Basic tips and tricks for ZSH
tags: [linux, dev]
---

zsh comes with a lot of awesome stuff right out of the box. Here are sometips that should help you get started. I'm currently using a slightly modified robby-russell theme, which you can find [here](https://github.com/patoupatou/zsh-theme)

# cd/git completion

Autocompletion in zsh is a breeze. By default, the autocompletion feature is not case-sensitive. That means that if you're in your home directory and wants to autocomplete 'cd Documents', you don't have to type 'cd D<tab>' but only 'cd d<tab>'. It might seem like nothing, but it's actually very awesome. Plus, it will cycle between upper and lower case words when completing. Of course, if you want zsh not to cycle through upper/lower cases, you can set it in the .zshrc. That's also what makes zsh so awesome, it's highly customizable.

zsh is also interactive, pressing tabs repeatedly will cycle through the possible choices, whereas bash will enter a newline followed by the choices, which can be very annoying if the list is long.

# zshrc

The first time you run zsh, there should be a quick wizard that will allow you to set some settings. If you ever want to modify them after, you can edit the ~/.zshrc directly later on. This file also contains the configuration for the oh-my-zsh plugin that is shown below.

# oh-my-zsh and the community around it

If you're planning on using zsh or you're already using it, you should totally install [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh). This project contains hundreds of different zsh plug-ins that will enhance your prompt even further.

You can select a theme from dozen of already available themes [here](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/wiki/themes).

## git plug-in
One of my favorite plug-in is the git plug-in for zsh. you can activate it by adding git to the plugins variable inside your [.zshrc file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/patoupatou/dotfiles/master/zsh/.zshrc). When you navigate inside a git repository, you can quickly know what branch you're in and the status of that branch.

This is the normal prompt (may change depending on your zsh theme)

```
➜ user@hostname ~
```

And this is when you're currently inside a git repository

```
➜ user@hostname dotfiles git:(master) ✗
```

The git plugin also adds a ton of useful aliases like gc for git commit, gst for git status, gl for git pull etc. You can see the complete list [here](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/blob/master/plugins/git/git.plugin.zsh) or you can list the current git aliases with the following command `alias | grep git`.

# Other stuff

The official zsh FAQ also provides tons of reasons to switch to zsh. Check them out right [here](http://zsh.sourceforge.net/FAQ/zshfaq01.html#l4)

* * *

I might update this post in the future, if you have any questions/comments, don't hesitate to comment at the bottom of the post, and I'll try to reply as soon as possible :)
