---
layout: post
title: Basic Linux terminal tips!
tags: linux, dev
---

So you're new to the Linux world, or you're simply new to the Linux shell, well here's some basic tips and tricks that should help you get started.

## Use the symbols to expand your commands 

As far as I know, the tilde ~ symbol will expand to the home directory of the current user on most distributions/shells. You can use it to quickly edit files that are in your home directory (dotfiles for example). For instance let's say you're in a folder far from your home directory.

```
➜ pwd
/home/user/eclipse/oomph-master/git/org.eclipse.oomph/products/org.eclipse.oomph.setup.installer.product/icons
```


And you want to quickly edit a file from your home directory. You can use the ~ to start from your home directory.

```
➜ vim ~/.vimrc
```

will expand to

```
➜ vim /home/user/.vimrc
```

where user is your username.

You can also use the wildcard to work with multiple files. To quickly delete files that start with test and end with anything else. You can enter `rm test*`.

You can also use environment variables with commands. For instance, $HOMEwill expand to the absolute path of your home, $USER will expand to the current username, $HOST to the hostname of your current machine etc. You can quickly view all environment variables and their value with the `env` command. Simply use `grep` to look for a specific value, or you could even use `echo $VAR` to get the value of a single variable.

## Go back to the last directory

You can use the command "cd -" to go back to the last directory 

```
➜ pwd
/home/user/eclipse/oomph-master/git/org.eclipse.oomph/products/org.eclipse.oomph.setup.installer.product/icons
➜ cd ~
➜ pwd
/home/user
➜ cd -
/home/user/eclipse/oomph-master/git/org.eclipse.oomph/products/org.eclipse.oomph.setup.installer.product/icons
```


## Repeating the last command entered

You can type !! in the terminal to repeat the last command entered

```
➜  ~ apt-get update
E: Could not open lock file /var/lib/apt/lists/lock - open (13: Permission denied)
E: Unable to lock directory /var/lib/apt/lists/
E: Could not open lock file /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (13: Permission denied)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), are you root?
➜  ~ sudo !!
➜  ~ sudo apt-get update
Get:1 http://security.ubuntu.com wily-security InRelease [65.9 kB]
```

## Change your shell

The shell you're probably using if you just installed Linux is bash (Bourne Again SHell). There are a lot of other shells to try out there, and the one I personally recommend is [zsh](http://zsh.sourceforge.net/).

Head over [ there ]({% post_url 2016-4-22-ZSH %}) if you want some tips on how setup your zsh configuration, or to simply learn more about this shell.

## Learn to use reverse-i-search 

By now you probably learned that using the up and down arrow keys allow you to cycle through the last entered commands from your shell history. But what if sometimes the last command you entered was 5, 10, 25 or 100 commands before? Well the shell does offer a way to quickly search through that history. Pressing *<ctrl>-r* followed by the first few characters of the command you're looking for will show you the first match. You can refine your search by typing more characters and you can cycle up the history by pressing *<ctrl>-r* again. You can also change the search direction (down) by pressing *<ctrl>-s*.
