---
layout: post
title: Week 0
---

I'm not going to lie, I've tried blogging on my own before and could never stick with it. I attribute it to my lack of having a specific topic that also wasn't too personal, but let's be real--it's terrifying putting your words on the internet to be commented on. Nevertheless, I'm excited Mr. Downing made this an extra credit assignment. 

As Professor Downing has told us, I won't be talking about what we learned about in class, but rather what my thoughts and experiences on the past week's materials. He's also given us questions to answer that I'll touch on first. Hopefully, someone thinking of taking this class will find this useful (and--*fingers crossed*--interesting).  
***  
__Questions:__  
*1. What did you do this past week?*  
   I made sure I had github private repos, signed up for a Travis CI account, bought my textbooks (RIP my wallet), installed & tried out python3 on my home computer.  
*2. What's in your way?*  
   Getting started on Project 1 is what's keeping me from moving forward. I haven't used Github issues feature extensively, nor Travis CI. I also need to brush up on my python and I think that will make the first project take awhile for me.  
*3. What will you do next week?*  
   Starting tonight I'll be making my repo for the project and make sure I have all the required TAs shared to it. We should be finishing up discussion of the project Monday and I can ask any questions I encounter tonight in class then as well. By tomorrow afternoon I'll feel prepared to start working on Project 1. I also want to attend at least 1 of the "study sessions" this week.  
***  
My first reaction to the class was actually when I checked out the website before the first class day. I could see we had quite a few readings and assignments, but spread out reasonably; the list of tools we would be using was pretty extensive, yet all very useful; and Professor Downing seemed very well organized. The first lecture more or less backed these impressions and I left the class being pretty excited that I'll leave this class with the knowledge of quite a few tools.

I was happy to see that Professor Downing is walking us through the Project #1 description in class and showing the files he mentions and such. I'm a visual and hands-on kind of learner and walls of text are daunting for me so I get a lot out of something like that. It also allows me (or others) to ask questions then and there versus over piazza. Overall, I think this class will be a lot of work, but already I've learned to use new tools that will be useful in a job setting and I've got a positive outlook.
***  
__Major Key :key:__  
Still one of my favorites I've [stumbled](http://www.stumbleupon.com/su/5zWx9L) upon
