---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Update 2016-01-27 (stable)
---

I'm happy to announce our **fifth update** of Manjaro 15.12 (Capella)!

Most work went into preparations for Manjaro 16.03 (Daniella) release. Particularly we are working on some settings packages, so it would be possible to install our desktop-configurations on your already running system. This will also reduce the files the overlays of our manjaro-iso-profiles.

The internet was full with the Zero-Day linux kernel vulnerability CVE-2016-0728. We already had patched our default Bellatrix and Capella kernel With this update we additionally patched 3.10, 3.14, 3.19, 4.2, and 4.3 kernel series.

Python and Haskell seems to be a big topic right now. Archlinux community is really active and is updating a lot of packages for these programming languages. Same goes for our java packages 7 and 8. We also switched over to pulseaudio 8.0. These are the new features with this new release:
* Automatic routing more likely to change profile
* Systemd journal logging for clients
* New LFE balance programming interface
* Module-dbus-protocol improvements
* More flexible configuration file handling
* pulsecore-8.0.so moved to a private directory
* New script for measuring memory consumption
* Various bug fixes and small improvements
Since Deepin Desktop is getting more popular each day, the Chinese community had updates some packages again to stabilize this desktop environment. We notices some crashes in Plasma5. Therefor we ship additional patches to also stabilize the K desktop environment more.

Archlinux upstream fixes are now from: Sun Jan 24 10:08:52 CET 2016.

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/).

Please give us feedback and report any findings with this update.

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

## Current supported kernels

* Linux310 3.10.95
* Linux312 3.12.52
* Linux313 3.13.11.32
* Linux314 3.14.59
* Linux316 3.16.7.22
* Linux318 3.18.25
* Linux319 3.19.8.13
* Linux41  4.1.16
* Linux42  4.2.8.2
* Linux43  4.3.4
* Linux44  4.4.0

----

## Package changes

* community i686:  410 new and 356 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  411 new and 358 removed package(s)
* core i686:  16 new and 15 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  16 new and 15 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  175 new and 175 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  175 new and 175 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  11 new and 11 removed package(s)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=30569.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20160125/005750.html)
