---
layout: post
title: Manjaro Update 2016-01-13 (stable)
---

We are happy to announce our **third update** for Manjaro 15.12 (Capella)!

With this update, we renewed our kernels to 3.12.52, 3.16.7.22 and 4.4.0. Also a lot work went into our steam-client. Additionally we added some Budgie-, Plasma 5-fixes and lxqt-sudo support to Octopi, renewed the foomatic printer database, new haskell and python packages, updated wireshark, Plasma to 5.5.3, Eric IDE to 6.1.1, php to 7.0.2 and Firefox to 43.0.4.

Our KDE version now adopted GTK3. Please test and give us feedback with the exact theme and screenshot if some is broken now due this change.

Thus, our graphical installer, gained some needed fixes and features. It should be used as one of the installers in your next install medias. It supports now NVMe SSD drives and fixed some issue with EFI installation.

A bigger change was made to our manjaro-tools. We are now at v0.10 series which has a new profile structure. Example profiles are available for installation. Maintainers should read the documentation to get more info on these changes.

We now provide settings packages for each edition. This means you can now get all our release configurations easier installed on already installed systems by an earlier release of Manjaro.

Archlinux upstream fixes are now from: Tue Jan 12 02:35:08 CET 2016.

It is always good to check for updated packages, even we don't notify you about them. As usual people using our testing branch will help us to get snaps over to our branch almost smoothly. For notifications on daily bases please take a look at our [mailing list](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/).

Please give us feedback and report any findings with this update.

Kind regards,
Philip Müller and the Manjaro Development Team

----

## Current supported kernels

* Linux310 3.10.94
* Linux312 3.12.52
* Linux313 3.13.11.32
* Linux314 3.14.58
* Linux316 3.16.7.22
* Linux318 3.18.25
* Linux319 3.19.8.12
* Linux41  4.1.15
* Linux42  4.2.8.1
* Linux43  4.3.3
* Linux44  4.4.0

----

## Package changes

* community i686:  280 new and 244 removed package(s)
* community x86_64:  277 new and 241 removed package(s)
* core i686:  14 new and 14 removed package(s)
* core x86_64:  14 new and 14 removed package(s)
* extra i686:  219 new and 196 removed package(s)
* extra x86_64:  219 new and 196 removed package(s)
* multilib x86_64:  9 new and 8 removed package(s)

----

## Links

* [Talk about this update](https://forum.manjaro.org/index.php?topic=30105.0)
* [Changelog](https://lists.manjaro.org/pipermail/manjaro-packages/Week-of-Mon-20160111/005611.html)
