---
layout: post
title: Matt's First Post
author: Mschindl301
---


1. Which Research methods do you most want to learn?
A research method that I would like to understand better is network analysis. Taking massive amounts of data from networking and analyzing it. I feel like this skill would be useful to have inside and outside of digital humanities, and is a method that I will use even outside of class. Company's use networking data constantly to better improve there outreach methods, and as that is something that I want to get into, I would love the opportunity to better understand this research method.

2. What topics in digital humanities research interest you?
A topic that interests me in digital humanities research is how company's are using social media and the Internet to advertise a product or service. Using digital marketing techniques to target and capture a specific audience.  Internet marketing is something that has always fascinated me and having a chance to research this in greater depth would help me for future applications.

3. Which digital literacy especially do you most want to master?
A digital literacy I would like to master is connecting all forms and devices that we use to a single core network. Having things shared back and forth between me phone, computer, and tablet would be of great help to me, and make school and personal life a lot more productive. I have started syncing small amounts of data over the cloud and it has helped me greatly, but I would like to improve this skill to help me and others more easily share information.
