---
layout: post
title: "Project: General Network Access Tester"
---

The General Network Access Tester, or GNAT for short, was my Senior Seminar capstone project. GNAT is an [open source](https://github.com/michaelvessia/gnat) Android application that creates JSON log files detailing your current network connection.  Those log files can be saved to a database on a server, which I also built an [example web application](https://gnat-rails.herokuapp.com) for.  Users of the app will be able to run it in the background and monitor their network passively; this means that IT teams or Network Administrators can collect data about their network and use it to troubleshoot.

This project taught me a lot of new things. Here's a list of some of the things I felt I learned from GNAT, in no particular order.

- Android Development/Studio/SDK
- More advanced Java features
- Multi-threading (network operations need to be done on their own thread!)
- User Interface Design
- How to take a project from idea to completion

Obviously GNAT checked a lot of boxes for me, and it was definitely one of my favorite things that I have programmed so far.  For all the benefits it brought me, there are still quite a few things I wish I did differently. 

- I would have liked to test the application properly

When I was learning Ruby on Rails, many of the resources used a TDD approach and Rails played really nicely with things like RSpec.  I felt like Android was significantly more test hostile, and when deadlines were looming I scrapped trying to learn how to properly test.  I didn't like doing this, but it is what it is.

- I would have liked to be on a team

Completing an entire Android app and a web app on my own during the semester was loads of fun and a great learning experience, but I think I could have also learned how to work as a team on a project of this scale.  The most collaboration I've had with other programmers at this stage in my programming career is on homework and at hackathons, neither of which are anything like working on shipping a project together over the course of a few months.

I'm working on getting GNAT on the Play store but I need a logo and I am terrible with GIMP.  Time to start pestering my graphic designer friends...


