---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
***  
__:question: Questions :question:__  
*1. What did you do this past week?*  
  I spent time reading _Javascript: The Good Parts_ and _Extreme Programming Installed_, as well as just poking around the files provided to us. 
  I knew what I was going to do for parts like the algorithm and how to test, so I let myself spend time getting comfortable using
  github again, checking out Travis CI, and trying to mess with my blog. Majority of the time for me was spent on the readings.
   
*2. What's in your way?*  
  Trying to ssh in to the labs turned out to just be a pain when my internet was being whacky. 
  I'm going to start going to the lab instead and not leave my fate up to Time Warner Cable's temperament.
  
*3. What will you do next week?*  
  Go into the lab and work on my unit tests. I'm going to give the Sphere extra credit a shot as well.
  
***  

Reading for me takes awhile. I like to read things once to get the general idea and then again to make notes that are concise and 
important to the big picture of the readings. I'm also a hands on type of learner so reading from a book isn't my favorite way to 
learn, but you're definitely quizzed on it so you can't just skim readings.

As for my experience with using the github Issues feature, I can see it being useful for a collaborative task list. I hadn't ever used
the feature before this class, but now I like it. I also find it cool that issues can be linked to commits and closed.

Overall, it's been slow getting used to some tools, but it's moving along.
