---
layout: post
title: The books of 2017
---

## Fiction
### Novels
- 'The Circle' by Dave Eggers. In this novel we follow Mae, a young ambitious graduates who lands her dream job in the Circle in customer services. Though the story is quite simple, the satire is topical and the book is worth a read. (****)
- 'The Ocean at the End of the Lane' by Neil Gaiman. 	Simple, but hauntingly beautiful story. (****)
- 'Memoirs of a Polar Bear' by Yōko Tawada. Strange book written from the perspectives of three generations of polar bears. Did not like it as much as I though I would. (\*\*\*)
- 'The Story of My Teeth' by Valeria Luiselli. The story of a charlatan. Funny at some moments, but seemed to satire some aspects of literature I am not so familiar with. (\*\*\*)
- 'Call Me By My Name' by Aciman, André
- 'Hag-Seed: The Tempest Retold' by
Atwood, Margaret
### Fantasy and Science Fiction
- 'Sleeping Giants (Themis Files, #1)' by Sylvain Neuvel. Top sci-fi book! Really like the interview based narrative. (****\*)
- 'A Wizard of Earthsea (Earthsea Cycle, #1)' by Ursula Le Guin. Old school fantasy book about young wizards and dragons. (****)
- 'Waking Gods (Themis Files, #2)' by Sylvain Neuvel. 	Less mystery and more action than 'Sleeping Gods'. I finished it within a day. (****)
- 'Ink (Skin Books, #1)' by 	
Alice Broadway. Well written fantasy on society and identity. (****)
- 'Warbreaker' by Brandon Sanderson. Sanderson is known for his highly enjoyable fantasy novels with interesting magic systems. This one does not disappoint and although I read it with much pleasure, Sanderson his novels do feel a bit formalistic after a while. (****)
- 'The Once and Future King' by T.H. White. 	The story of Arthur, Merlyn, Lancelot and Guinevere. A very impressive read. (****)
- 'Neverwhere' by 	
Gaiman, Neil
- 'Oathbringer (The Stormlight Archive #3)' by Brandon Sanderson
- 'A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms' by George R.R. Martin
## Nonfiction
### Biology
- 'Biopunk: Solving Biotech's Biggest Problems in Kitchens and Garages' by Marcus Wohlsen. A nice overview of the DIY biology movement. Made me very enthusiastic to get involved! (****\*)
- 'Regenesis: How Synthetic Biology Will Reinvent Nature and Ourselves' by George M. Church. The crazy world or de-extinct mammoths and mirror life concocted in the lab of the godfather of synthetic biology. (****)
- 'A Sting in the Tale: My Adventures with Bumblebees' by Dave Goulson. The fascinating complex life of bees, written by the bumblebee professor. (****\*)
- 'Lab Girl: A Story of Trees, Science & Love' by Hope Jahren
### Self-improvement and organization
- 'The Quick and Easy Way to Effective Speaking' by Dale Carnegie. Old, but not outdated! Contains many useful tips for public speaking or generally clarifying things. (****)
- '$100 Startup' by Chris Guillebeau. Accessible book on how to 'think small' and start your own business. (****)
- 'Algorithms to Live by: The Computer Science of Human Decisions' by Brian Christian
- 'The Organized Mind: Thinking Straight in the Age of Information Overload' by Levitin, Daniel J.
### Varia
- 'Nine Algorithms That Changed the Future: The Ingenious Ideas That Drive Today's Computers' by John MacCormick. Nice little book highlighting some algorithms we use every day (Pagerank, compression, encryption...) and explaining them in clear, simple language using analogies. (\*\*\*)
- 'Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future' by Ashlee Vance. Insights in the world of a man who wants humans to be a multi-planet species. (\*\*\*)
- 'The Sense of Style: The Thinking Person’s Guide to Writing in the 21st Century' by Steven Pinker. Interesting reference on good (scientific) writing. The beginning was much more interesting than the end though... (\*\*\*)
- 'We Have No Idea: A Guide to the Unknown Universe' by Jorge Cham and Daniel Whiteson. The big things about the universe we do not know. Entertaining but sometimes a bit funny for just the sake of being funny.
- 'Quantum Mechanics: The Theoretical Minimum (Theoretical Minimum #2)' by Leonard Susskind and Art Friedman. Physics remains a continuing interest of me and Susskind's theoretical minimum series explain it with quite enough rigor. (****)
- 'Things to Make and Do in the Fourth Dimension' by Matt Parker. Parker covers things from exotic ways of cutting pizzas to making a computer from domino bricks. His enthusiasm is contagious and he always gives you the impression that you could have come up with these things yourself. (****\*)
- 'Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow' by Harari, Yuval Noah
- 'Soonish: Ten Emerging Technologies That'll Improve and/or Ruin Everything' by Kelly and Zach Weinersmith

Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow	Yuval Noah Harari	Harari, Yuval Noah		="1784703931"	="9781784703936"	4

## Textbooks
- 'Algorithms in C++, Parts 1-4: Fundamentals, Data Structure, Sorting, Searching' by Robert Sedgewick. Excellent reference on basic algorithms and data structures! (****)
- 'Lab-on-a-Chip Devices and Micro-Total Analysis Systems: A Practical Guide' by Castillo-Leon, Jaime.
- 'Graph Algorithms in the Language of Linear Algebra' by Jeremy Kepner. Great reference on how to design a microfluidic/lab-on-a-chip system. Easily digestible in a short time, but packed with useful references and tables! (****)
- 'From Populations to Ecosystems: Theoretical Foundations for a New Ecological Synthesis' by Loreau, Michel
- 'Network Science' by Barabási, Albert-László
- 'Quantitative Viral Ecology: Dynamics of Viruses and Their Microbial Hosts' by Weitz, Joshua
- 'Mutualistic Networks' by Jordi Bascompte and Pedro Jordano

Computational Optimal Transport	Peyré, Gabriël	Gabriël, Peyré,	Cuturi, Marco	=""	=""	4
