---
layout: post
title: What's the plan?
comments: true
---

If you're wondering about what activeAI plans to achieve and can't decide whether to be a part of the community or not,this post is for you. 

AI is an interdisciplinary field. It gives a chance for people from different streams to come and work together. If you think this community is meant for people only in computer related branches, you couldn't be more wrong! It doesn't matter what your major is. If you're interested, you are in. It's that simple!

## Is activeAI for me?


### if(you == "new_kid"){

I'm assuming that you are not familiar with machine learning at all. If that's the case, here's how we can help. There are many blog posts coming up just like this one which will cover the basics of Artificial Neural Networks. We'll implement a neural network from scratch in python which will help you understand the theory and math behind neural networks. Then, we'll move on to optimization techniques. If you understand the blogs well, you won't be the new kid anymore. 

**meanwhile** : Learn python, revise basic calculus(partial derivatives), brush up on matrix operations, try numpy

### }

### else if(you == "beginner"){

If you are familiar with the basics of machine learning including fully connected neural networks, I'd put you in this category. In fact, the first blog post of this site is for you. It covers Convolutions. If you haven't checked it out already, go ahead and read it. The second part will be up in a few days :) More posts are coming up covering CNNs, RNNs although it might take a little longer. activeAI can help you find people who are willing to help you.

**meanwhile** : Read up on CNNs, RNNs. There are excellent resources out there. You just have to google to find them. 

### }

### else if(you == "intermediate"){
	
If you're here, I am assuming you know how CNNs,RNNs work. You might have trained some networks, tried out frameworks. I belong to this category. So, what can activeAI offer you? We are planning to have weekly WAYR sessions where we'll pick 2 research papers and discuss about them at length. This would cover theory as well as code. We'll vote and decide the research papers every week. We'll alternate between the classic and emerging papers so that we realize the motivation behind current research. We can even start our own deep learning library. There's no limit to what we can do :smile:

### }

### else{

**This is the stage we want to reach. Our goal is to build a community with strong theoretical foundations. We want to build good coders who have a strong mathematical background. This is the stage where we can come up with new ideas, beat the state of the art architectures, influence the future and be a part of the AI revolution.** 

### }

**If this sounds interesting to you, activeAI is for YOU. Let's be the community that matters.** :heart:

Tell us what you're expecting from activeAI in the comments.Feel free to drop an email or a tweet.

**Here's the link to the facebook group. Join if you're interested! [Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/2076655352562143/)**

Written by [Siddhartha Rao Kamalakara](https://www.linkedin.com/in/siddhartha-rao-kamalakara-8414a6ba) for activeAI.

Email me: srk97c@gmail.com

