---
layout: post
title: Project Luther - Horror Movies
---
## A New Challenge and Venture

For our second project we got to collect and clean our own data that we scraped from a site of our choice. I love movies and decided to investigate horror movies. I avoid this genre as much as I can during my day to day, so I saw this as a good chance to rub shoulders with these neglected movies. My goal was to predict the gross of a movie based on a number of variables that I collected from IMDb for each movie. 

## IMDb

There are a few movie sites with many charts, ratings, and comments from users. Initially I contemplated using the-numbers. Growing up I had nerded out on that site, having grown up in LA and being surrounded by movies. I really enjoyed the dry data and tables that were on the-numbers. However IMDb seemed to be cleaner and better suited for the problem I was trying to solve. IMDb is a goldmine of movie data.  


## Scraping

One of the important steps for this project was the data collection. We had the option of using either Beautiful Soup or Selenium to scrape webpages for our data. For more involved scraping Selenium comes in handy since it acts as a user and can click, select, enter text etc. Beautiful Soup simply scrapes the HTML of the page without any interaction with the front end of the site.

For my project I used Beautiful Soup and scraped 3048 horror movies from IMDb. It was not completely clear how much information I would need, so I decided to scrape as much as I could. I ended up with a healthy set of variables to potentially utilize when modeling the data. I also scraped Box Office Mojo's average tickets per year price table which I used to adjust the gross each movie made. A ticket back in 1910 was 10 cents, whereas today's average ticket price according to the site is $8.65.

Putting the two tables together I had {title	mpaa	duration	genre	imdb	metascore	text	directors_all	stars_all	reviews	gross	intyear	price	tix}.


## Cleaning, oh the Cleaning

Now that I had a database with multiple columns are 3048 rows, I had to make some decisions as to how to clean and organize the data. It was important for me to


I decided to keep the genre data. Instead of having genre as one variable, I split the columns by genre and assigned a 0 or 1 depending on if the movie had been labeled with that genre. Some movies had more than one genre assigned to them. I removed the three columns that had unique text in them, namely the directors, the stars, and the text description of the movies.





##Some Models




##Conclusion
