---
layout: post
title: "Python Anywhere and Git"
date: 2017-01-01
tags: [git]
---
Pythonanywhere has an excellent [tutorial for setting up a website with Flask](https://blog.pythonanywhere.com/121/). The tutorial shows how to set up a website and put it under version control with Git. But it only shows how to do that by initiating a new repository; it doesn't show you how to connect with an existing repo. In this post, I will show how to connect Pythonanywhere to an existing Github account and some basics commands to manage your Pythonanywhere app.<!--more-->

Here are the tools to connect your pythonanywhere to your github account.

## Starting a new project

Go to [Github](https://github.com/)

Click on "New repository" on the right or open an existing repository if you already have one you want to work with

If it's new, give it a title and click "Create repository"

Find the URL for the remote repository by clicking on the green "Clone or download" button, the click the copy to clipboard button to copy the url. It should end with .git. Something like: https://github.com/jss367/pythonanywhere.git

Then go to your bash console on pythonanywhere inside the folder you want to connect to Github. This is possibly your mysite folder. You'll want to initiate this as a git repository. Enter `git init`


Type: `git remote add origin <remote_repository_URL>`.

Then test out that the connection works. Type: `git remote -v`. You should get a response verifying the remote URL. It should look something like this:

origin  https://github.com/jss367/pythonanywhere.git (fetch)
origin  https://github.com/jss367/pythonanywhere.git (push)

Then, you have to pull the remote repository to your local Pythonanywhere folder. Type: `git pull origin master`. This is one of the most common commands you will use. It is of the format `git pull <remote> <branch>`.

You'll have to make sure that a couple of things are in your `.gitignore` file. To see what's in your `.gitignore` file, enter `cat .gitignore`. Look for the following files:
<code>
*.pyc
__pycache__
</code>

If they are not in your `.gitignore`, you'll have to add them with `cat > .gitignore` and then type them in. Afterwards, hit Control D to return to the bash prompt.

Next, enter `git status` to see what the status of your repo is. You should see the .gitignore file listed under "Changes not staged for commit" as a modified file and you'll also see `flask_app.py` listed under "Untracked files". You'll need to stage them both for a commit by entering `git add ,` then commit them with `git commit -m "Add initial flask app file, update .gitignore"`

Finally, you'll push your updated repo to the remote repository. To do this, enter `git push origin master`. You may have to enter your Github username and password if you haven't already.

# Other useful commands

## Send changes to the master branch of your remote repository:	

`git commit -m "my changes`

`git push origin master`

Hit "`q`" to exit the git log

then, to get them back to your pythonanywhere app, use `git pull origin master`


## If you make changes you want to delete (i.e. return to previous commit): 

`git checkout -- flask_app.py`

Or, if you want to revert everything: `git checkout .`



## If you add a new file:

`git add .`

`git commit -m "added xxx"`

`git push origin master`

Enter your username and password if required


<h2>Connecting to an existing repo</h2>

git clone https://github.com/jss367/pythonanywhere.git

To get your app working, we'll need to configure a WSGI file that imports your app, as a Python variable. That means you need to know two things:

The path to the Python file containing your web app's WSGI file.

The name of the application.

For Flask, the WSGI app is usually invoked as app = Flask(__name__) somewhere. Locate this file and variable


Here is what your final WSGI file should look like. jss367_pythonanywhere_com_wsgi.py:

```python
import sys
#
## The "/home/jss367" below specifies your home
## directory -- the rest should be the directory you uploaded your Flask
## code to underneath the home directory.  So if you just ran
## "git clone git@github.com/myusername/myproject.git"
## ...or uploaded files to the directory "myproject", then you should
## specify "/home/jss367/myproject"
path = '/home/jss367/pythonanywhere'
if path not in sys.path:
    sys.path.append(path)

from flask_app import app as application
```


Other useful commands:
`git log`

# git diff

`git diff`

There are different ways to use git diff.
1. Show changes you haven't commited yet: `git diff [filename]`
2. Show changes you already commited (but haven't sync'd): `git diff --cached [filename]`
3.


You can also add files and commit in one go: `git commit -am "Going for broke"`


If you want to sync your git with the remote one (like when you've added a branch): `git remote update`

Creating a new branch

You can create a new branch on your local machine. Let's say your new branch is called database

`git checkout database`

You can make changes, break stuff, then switch back to your main branch at any time:

`git checkout master`

To see all your git branches:

What branch are you on: `git branch`
What branches are there: `git branch -a`

When you want to merge a branch back into it's master:

`git checkout <master>
git pull origin <master>
git merge <branch>
git push origin <master>`

If you want, you can delete the branch you just merged: `git branch -d <mergedbranch>`