Sometimes, trying to do science can make you feel dumb -- especially when you don't really know what you're doing, like me. Today was wasted trying to figure out how to do one simple thing.

# PATH
So, the first time I tried to run DOLPHOT, I got the error 'wfc3mask not found'. Not surprising, just like on the Mac I would have to add it to the PATH. I ran the command `export PATH=$PATH:/mnt/c/Users/t_ory/Documents/dolphot2.0/bin` to add the location of all of DOLPHOT's commands. This worked, and I was able to do a little bit of photometry, but not any more than I did on the Mac. Little did I know that this was a temporary fix, so that when I tried to do more photometry this morning, I again got 'wfc3mask not found'. I ran the command to fix the PATH again so I could do a little work, but when I wasn't making any progress on that, I decided to focus on making that PATH change permanent. This isn't hard to do, but it took me so long to figure out. Sometimes, trying to do science can make you feel dumb. Among a thousand other things, I tried changing the 'environment' file, I tried a plethora of commands following the PATH edit in attempt to make it permanent, I downloaded a new text editor and changed as many files as I could think of. The breakthrough came when I thought to try editing the '.profile' file, which turned out to be the wrong file but taught me something. I kept reading everywhere about '.profile', '.bashnc', etc. but couldn't find them, until eventually I remembered something from way back when I was installing the Git directory about hidden files and using `ls -a` instead of `ls`. I should have thought of this sooner. Sometimes, trrying to do science makes you feel dumb. I did this, and of course there was '.profile' and '.bashnc' right there. I just added `export PATH=$PATH:/mnt/c/Users/t_ory/Documents/dolphot2.0/bin` to '.bashnc', tested DOLPHOT, closed the Ubuntu terminal, reopened it and tested DOLPHOT again, and everything is good now.

# Conclusion
I'm just really excited to get back to photometry tomorrow. 
