Today started with a group meeting with the GRG. We've now all gotten to the point where we are trying to make color-magnitude diagrams. Based on Dr. G's advice, I'm going to work on filtering the results before I start trying to generate any graphs. I didn't think about it until Rory said it, but it is very strange that there's close to 500,000 stars in each drc image, so filtering is necessary. But first, I have to start dolphot running on the last few folders. Rory is taking a few, but I still have three to do. 

# dolphot
So, I changed my laptop again last night. I decided to buy a desktop, so I'm selling my nicer laptop (my now-current one has half the RAM so can't run dolphot nearly as well -- although its GPU is nice). I can now do two dolphots at once, not three. It used to be I had enough RAM that every time I added a new instance of dolphot, my CPU had to catch up so that each instance of dolphot was about 30% of my CPU. Now that I'm grasping for more RAM, every time I add a new dolphot instance, my CPU has to slow down to let the memory catch up, so I can only do 20% of the CPU per dolphot instance, so it takes a little longer (CPUs are comparable between laptops, this ones slightly worse). No issues on the transfer between laptops, though; I still have my data and dolphot and it didn't take long. 

Either way, I now have all of the photometry done for the data. Looking through everything, the sheer volume of information is really overwhelming. I don't really know the best way to go about filtering, but I do have some ideas. I've looked through all the manuals, and  I'm starting to understand the goodness-of-fit values in the data, but I'm not sure exactly what types of values I should be throwing out. 

I spent some time thinking about which values to use and somewhat figured out what I'm going to do with the filtering, but I started some programming and am having more trouble than I thought I would making things work. Google isn't being as helpful as usual. The manual says that it sorts each star into it's own row so that you can use Unix commmands like `AWK`, but I don't really know anything about `AWK` or how to use it and my first attempts at researching it and what it does have left me a little confused. 

# Conclusion
I got a lot less done on the filtering today than I had hoped; it's turning out to be a little more diffiult than I expected (like most things I do). It's just so much data and it's very well mixed-together. 
