---
title: The Weekend (Day Twenty Three)
---

Even though I didn't intend for it to be, this weekend ended up being dedicated to getting DOLPHOT on my laptop. I wanted to focus on photometry as I had said of [Friday](https://thom-ory.github.io/day-twenty-two/), but I unfortunately cannot access the Mac lab on the weekends, so I had to get DOLPHOT to work on my laptop if I was to get anything done. 

# Windows Struggles
I'm starting to hate Windows. The issues I'm facing are mostly arising because DOLPHOT is intended to be run in a Unix environment, not the clunky Windows Command Prompt that a little bit sucks. This feels like such a long time ago, but last I updated you I had just gotten cygwin and it would only compile a few of DOLPHOT's commands. Picking up from there, I tried to solve the issue using Marta's advice and installed a bunch more commands for cygwin. Unfortunately, the issue persisted. So, I looked closer at the error messages I was getting and realized that they came from a file called 'dolphot.o'. So, I rewrote a bunch of lines of code but couldn't solve all the errors, partially or mostly due to my lack of knowledge about C. I did enlist a friend of mine who is a computer science major, and he helped some but I ended having to make some alterations to the code that might have completed changed the program's functionality. So, I scrapped that plan and moved on. I decided it was probably cygwin's fault, so I abandoned it and installed Ubuntu Linux as a subsystem on my laptop. This was far better than cygwin, but I still had other issues to address.

Using the Unix environment in Ubuntu, I got DOLPHOT to start to compile and easily got back to about as much progress as I had made using cygwin. I had to install a few Unix commands, but that's really easy to do in Ubuntu's excellent terminal envorinment (#windowssucks). Unfortunately, an older issue reared it's head again with more force than it had before and that derailed me for the rest of the weekend (this was Saturday evening). Working in cygwin, the first time I tried to compile, I got the error "the directory $Ory/dolphot2.0 does not exist" because my User folder is named "Tommy Ory" from when I created this Microsoft account years ago. In cygwin, this wasn't a big issue because I could just create a new folder right next to "cygwin/home/Tommy Ory" (the default folder to program in using cygwin) called "ThomOry" and everything was good. But then cygwin didn't get all the commands. Linux, because it is a subsystem, would require me to actually change the default user folder to "ThomOry," and this is a Herculean task. It requires renaming thousands of registry files. I tried another way that should have automatically changed them, but that didn't work. After reading a forum that said the only way is to rename all the files by hand, I bit the bullet and dug in. After sinking about 2.5 hours into renaming files over Saturday evening and Sunday morning, I encountered a folder that had at least two thousand subfolders, each of which contained two files I needed to rename. I gave up. I had made a registry backup before I started, and made a new one with the less-than-half done registry edits, too. I tried importing the registry backup but there was a permissions/folder already in use error. Now using this user account is really screwy now, but it's not fatal, as I'm typing this on that account right now. 

I switched up my strategy. Now I'm going for a fresh installation of Windows. I copied all my valuable files to an external hard drive (which is just some music software and a bunch of projects and audio clips) and put a recovery drive on a USB. I'll reinstall DOLPHOT and Ubuntu from scratch afterwards. I decided to type this just before I push off into the unknown with this installation, so tune in for Day 24's post to see if I blow up my laptop accidentally (very likely). 

# Conclusion
I'm heading back to the Mac lab Monday to do real work. I feel like this weekend got robbed from me, but I also don't see how it could have gone any way else. I tried the best thing I knew to do at every moment when trying to fix this, even if I regret even trying to rename all those files now. Kinda jumped into the deep end before I could swim on that one. I wish I could've just gone to the Mac lab because I would never have invested this much time into this if I could have. My laptop was just the only computer I could access. This is real life stuff, though, sometimes things go this way, and they had to this time. 
