Today, I figure out generally what `awk` does. It's not as crazy complicated as I thought at first; I think complicated is just how things look when you're learning them for the first time. Therefore, I got some filtering done.

# Color-Magnitude Diagrams
So, I'm not actually ready to start making a code that will generate color magnitude diagrams since my data is still unfiltered, but I do now have the ability to do the filtering. I start with what might be a controversial decision; In dophot's output, it has photometry "blocks" that have different information in each. The first block is all the photometry for each source after astrometrically matching those sources. I think this block is an average of the data measured in each science image while taking into account the differing exposure times of the images. The next blocks are the data measured in each individual image, giving 11 total photometry blocks. I think the use of the last ten blocks is to verify information in the first block. I'm honestly not really sure if they're very useful. My controversial decision is to axe those last ten blocks as my first act of filtering. 

I start with ib2o01.phot, the first folder alphabetically. [This page](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/awk-command-unixlinux-examples/) took a lot of thought to get through, but it's where I got most my iniformation on how to run `awk`. With the terminal running in the folder 'ib2o01', I run the command `awk '{print $1, $2, $3, $4... $24}' ib2o01.phot > composite_data.txt` so that I rid myself of the individual stars' data and 'composite_data.txt' is a lot easier to look at than 'ib2o01.phot'. The next bit of filtering I did was based off object type. I got rid of everything that isn't object type one (in column eleven). This gets rid of 314,746 stars, changing from 465,544 sources to 150,978. 

# Conclusion
The rest of the filtering was just looking at the WFC3 and dolphot manuals that go through what about your goodness-of-fit values. I just went through one-by-one and made sure that my values were at least as good or better than the values in the manual (like with shparness, whereI reduced to range of what is considered a good star). 
