---
layout: post
title: Week Four in Review
---

This week has felt quite short, since three full days were taken up by workshops. Which has created a strange paradox in that I feel like I've learnt a lot, but not got much at all done. I think in future I'd prefer to spread things out a bit, but all the workshops were quite useful.

## Goals

#### Use more hotkeys

I haven't been doing much typing this week (see above note re: workshops), but I have found that using an external keyboard has helped me to use more hotkeys. Since I have to keybaord positioned in front of my laptop, and I use the touchpad rather than the mouse, it makes using the cursor just inconvenient enough that I natually use the keyboard as much as possbile instead. I also find this much less frustrating than e.g. banning myself from using the mouse at all. I think I will keep this setup for a few more weeks and then review how I'm going with using hotkeys.

#### Practice git and vim commands

Once again I simply didn't get to this goal due to lack of time. I think I will push it to next week again, but this time make it a priority.

---

## Tasks

#### Role empathy: archetect

We had a chat with Jon Eaves to learn more about his role, and what as an archetect he wants from us as developers. He discussed his role in the organisation (making sure there is minimal duplication and maximum consistency, and helping all the different parts and applications work together), and how he works (mostly helping teams when they invite him to). He also discussed some things he wants us to keep in mind as we start our careers.  
He emphasised that TDD is not about testing, but rather about designing the interface. Thus you must have a destination in mind, since it will only ease your jounry, not provide one. It will also likely not provide sufficent tests for the final application, so expect to need to write more later.  
He disscussed the need to use sensible defaults, in order to have consistency accross the organisation. He also talked about the value of watching good coders at work, in order to inprove our own code.  
Finally, explained how to use solution options to make good decisions. When deciding on a solution to a problem, we should write up multiple options and discuss them with the right people (who this is depends on the problem domain and who it is going to effect). We should raise the visibility as necessary so that others can offer input and assistance, since people like Jon might have knowledge of the larger problem domain and e.g. one of the solutions might help solve a problem in the wider application. The aim of this is to make the best decision for the organisation as a whole, not just for us or our team. This leads to a better application suite overall.

#### Agile workshop

Terry spend the day taking us through some of the principles of, and theories behind agile. He also discussed some different approaches to implementing agile practices. This was mostly revision for me, since the theory was well covered in my uni course and my previous workplace changed from kanban to scrum during my time there (which was very educational, as I got to watch experienced devlopers changing the way they worked and learn with them). The two main takeaways I got out of the day were to make sure you ask if anyone else needs help before starting a new card (since in-progress cards should by definition have higher priority than ones yet to be started), and to make sure you follow through on changes decided in retros.

#### Culture day

It was really good to meet people from other areas of the company. A lot of the content was repeated from our orientation, but it was still a fun day.

#### Linux workshop

This was a fantastic workshop. Once again a lot of it was revision, but it covered some very important, low level concepts. I will be writing a blog post about this next week in order to consolodate my knowledge of the content covered.  
We also worked on the Over The Wire Bandit challenges, which were very educational and fun. I got up to level 15, and would like to finish all the levels next week.  
Overall this was a fantastic reminder of how much I enjoy the more low-level programming. I have learnt C, shell scripting, and MIPS before, and really enjoyed working in all of them. I would like to revise these languages over the coming weeks, because I think that the concepts they require (e.g. garbage disposal, registers) are useful fundamentals to understand.

#### _Clean Code_ book: chapter one

The forward to this book discussed the 5S principles (seiri (整理), seiton (整頓), seiso (清楚), seiketsu (清潔) and shitsuke (躾)) which made a lot of sense to me as principles for writing good code (although I found the explaination in the Japanese wikipedia was better than the one in the book :joy: I think Japanese concepts just make more sense in Japanese).  
The first chapter discussed different definitions of "clean code". The key points I took out of this were: bad code always slows you down, and begets more bad code; you can, should and have to fight to implement good code despit deadlines; clean code does one thing well; it is clear, easy to maintain and testable; we should aim to reduce duplication and use simple abstractions; work with your langauge, rahter than forcing into something it's not; write readable code; and always leave the code base cleaner than when you found it.

---

## Planning for future blog posts

I've been thinking about what learnings I should record in blog posts, and doing some initial planning for these. Below is a draft list in no particular order; it's subject to change, but hopefully making it public will give me more motivation to actually write them.

* Git (a summary of commands I find useful, and how to setup a new github repo)  
* Linux (based on the Linux workshop, and mostly for my own reference; I find typing up my notes useful revison)  
* My extended essay (on RSA and quantum encryption: a summary of the original essay with updated information. May well become 3 posts on public key, quantum cryptography, and analysis)  
* GitLab CI (a basic overview of what I learnt from setting this up at my previous workplace)

---

## Takeaways

* Check whether others need help before starting a new unit of work  
* Commit to small, incremental changes, and actually _change_ things (don't just talk about it!)  
* I should make an effort to meet more people in the company  
* I should learn more about design principles  
* I really like working in low-level languages, and should revise some of those I've worked with in the past  
* I have a lot of blog posts to write!  
* Try not to have three full-day workshops in a single week

---

## Next Week's Goals

* Write at least one blog post in additon to my weekly one  
* Practice git and vim commands  
* Do more work in lower-level languages
