---
layout: post
title: Week Two in Review
---

Week two felt a bit slower than week one, probably in part due to the time I spent working through the online training, and also becuase I was sick :mask: I still got some good things done though, and learnt a lot!

## Goals

#### Get better at JUnit

Pretty much all of the coding I've done this week has revolved around writing tests, so I'm feeling a lot more comfortable with JUnit now. I've also learnt some things a little more advanced than `assertEqual` as well, like using the in-built rules to create temporary folders to use in testing i/o. There's still definitely a lot more for me to learn, but I feel like I know enough to actually write the tests I need without it taking longer than writing the program itself!

#### Learn vim

The crash-course Jonathan gave me was fantastic. I've used vim a bit over the week (e.g. to make and edit a _gitIgnore_ file for my coding challenge) and I managed the tasks without needing to look anything up which is a **huge** step up from where I was before. I still need to think about what I'm doing though, so I definitely need more practice before I can say that I'm able to use vim competently. That will come with time though, so long as I make sure to use it when I can. I have also made sure to not change from the defaults _too_ much (my _vimrc_ contains mainly some formatting nicities) so that I learn the full, proper commands first rather than relying on shortcuts. I may look into shortcuts later once I'm comfortable with the defaults, but for now I need to be able to use vim on whatever computer I pick up (or server I ssh into).

---

## Tasks

#### Payslips coding exercise (again)

I refactored my solution and had a second code review with my mentors. They suggested that I move my new i/o methods into a seperate class, which would improve the program structure and cohesion, and make testing a lot easier. I have started working on implementing this and writing more tests, and am looking forward to having another code review in our next meeting.

As Elliott said, it's been very useful to see my inital bad solution, and then work towards a good solution. It has shown me what not to do and **why** it's wrong, and then what the right way to do it is and why it's better. It's a lot more valuable than just being shown what the right way is straight out, since it makes the concepts a lot more concrete and meaningful.

#### Q&A with Mark

There was a lot discussed in this, which I've made notes on elsewhere. Here though I will mention the things which I need to action.

Mark suggested keeping notes on the meetings with our mentors, and then sending them to mentors so that everyone has a record. After discussing this with Elliott and Matt, we decided that this was neither necessary nor useful at this stage, but will keep it in mind if we need it in future.

Mark also suggested that we keep an eye on the list of key skills and work towards feeling comfortable with all of them. I will take a look at them this week and continue to review them regularly. He also suggested recording learnings, thoughts and feelings in our blogs, in order to demonstrate these skills, which I think I am doing :zap:

Finally he suggested making sure we demonstrate our ability in several programming paradigms, for example a dynamic, a staiticall typed, and a functional language. After discussing this with my mentors, we decided that I should start learning Node.js, since that is what Elliott's team works in.

#### Vim

As a spoke about above, I feel like I can **use** vim now, but I still need a lot of practice to be comfortable and quick with it. The one-on-one crash course with Jonathan was a fantastic way to learn it though, since he took me through the commands he uses regularly. He also gave me some useful formatting settings to add to my _vimrc_, and ended up teaching me some other commandline things in the process too. Overall it one of the most useful hours I've spent here so far. I also found that writing the blog post summary of the session helped me to revise and remember the commands; I took notes during the session, so writing the blog post forced me to revise them and make them neater.

#### Git basics workshop

This workshop was going over the **very** basics of git. While it was useful for getting everyone on the same page (my uni certainly didn't teach git) and was well-delivered, I didn't get much out of it since I'm already comfortable with the vast majority of those commands. I did take the time to look up some of the more advanced commands I want to learn though (such as manipulating branches from the commandline: creating, destorying, merging, rebasing), which was good. I think I shuld make some time to practice these (in a project set up for practice) so that I can remember them better. This might also be a good chance to practice vim since I would need to modify files in order to generate conflicts etc.

#### Retrospective



#### Online training

I spent some time this week going through the online training (privacy, OH&S, equal opportunity, etc). It was pretty tedious, but **is** things that everyone needs to know. At least it was in comic form, not just huge walls of text like I've had in the past.

#### _New Programmer's Survial Manual_ book chapters 2 and 3

Chapter 2 discussed the importance of choosing your language and platform to suit the task, and working idiomatically in them rather than trying to force them to be something they're not. It also taked about choosing your tools carefully, and updating them as appropriate.

Chapter 3 discussed the need to find a mentor, and be aware of your personal image. It talked about performance reviews, why they're important, and how to make them as pain-free as possbile. It also included suggestions for how to manage your stress levels and ergonomics.

I'm finding this book useful, but a bit more dry than _Apprentiship Patterns_. I think that has a lot to do with it dealing with the wider corporate structure, rather than just programming though :joy: It's still very useful advice though, and worth reading.

#### Code Retreat

This was an interesting experience. While I'm not completely enthusatic about it (it was a little too chaotic for me!), I did get a lot out of it so I think it was well worth the time. I think it was also good to experience pair-programming with a lot of different people, so I could see many different styles of working and start to learn how you need to adapt to each other when pair programming.

The key takeaways I got from this were to learn hotkeys, and to write shorter, clearer methods. I feel like I'm alrady fairly good at taking advantage of built-in methods, which was another key learning of the retreat. I also learnt that I need to work on my typing speed! I will keep these learnings in mind in my future work.

---

## Takeaways

* It would be useful to learn markdown, since it seems to be used a lot on github pages, and not knowing it is slowing me down when writing blog posts.

* I should aim to write shorter methods with a single, clear purpose.

* Similar methods should be grouped in cohesive classes.

* You need to adjust to the team, so that you can work with them, esecially when pair programming.

* I need to improve my touch typing and typing speed.

* I need to work on learning IntelliJ hotkeys.

* I need to practice my git and vim commands to become fluent with them.

* In general, practice, practice, practice! While keeping these learnings in mind so I don't keep making the same mistakes :sweat_smile:

---

## Next Week's Goals

* Improve typing speed

* Practice git and vim commands

* Finally finish reading _New Programmer's Survival Manual_

* Get more confident with Javascript

There's a lot of other things here which I could have made a weekly goal, but I think that four is plenty for now. My choice was based around what will make everything else quicker and easier (touchtyping and git/vim commands), feeling like I've finished something rather than leaving it partially done for weeks (the book), and a need for a change of pace (javascript). I think that the above goals will give me something to work towards, keep me interested and motivated, and let me feel that I've achieved something next week. That said, I will definitely be referring back to the above takeaways when planning goals for future weeks, since I think it would be very valuable to get to everything eventually.
