---
layout: post
title: Starting at CodeClan
---

Hey!

From the title you can probably guess what we did today. We started with consolidating our knowledge of Arrays, Hashes and Loops. Notably, my note taking skills significantly improved. Previously, I have attempted to take notes on a separate document, as the code was presented by our tutors. Instead, I decided to organise my notes alongside the code on the one document. I also modified my file naming procedure into Lessons, Exercises and the days’ Homework. Consequently, this will help organise my notes and present it in a clear manner. Moreover, I will be able to access my notes on my phone via Github, as I travel in and out of Glasgow, very convenient!

If you wish to see what we were working on today, follow the link:
<a href=“https://github.com/mattbryce93/CodeClan-Course/tree/master/week_01/day_3“>here!</a>

As mentioned previously we were working with Arrays, Hashes and Loops. I have some experience with all the content, through completion of pre-course material. This was to be completed prior to starting the course. However, I felt more comfortable with the Arrays and Loops than the Hashes, which was a newer concept.

The way I think of them is Arrays of pairs. Every index has a Key-Value pair that allows for quick searching and manipulation of the Hash. This doesn’t require using Index positions that an Array would.

I fell into a couple of syntax issues, particularly when it came to Symbols. The primary issue was the position of the colon that denotes the symbol. Essentially, it can either be prefixed or affixed to the symbol. However, prefixing causes errors in places and affixing causes errors in others. Have a look at <a href="https://github.com/mattbryce93/CodeClan-Course/blob/master/week_01/day_3/exercise_2.rb">exercise_2</a> to see my work on this.

The difficulty of course content has increased, but I believe this was partly due to today’s rampant commenting on all my code. This should become easier, as I learn to type more quickly, I hope.
