It's the start of a new week, and it really feels like we're entering a new phase of this research. Thanks to Marta, we have made progress in analyzing our actual data. We now have WCS information for DIAFI fields that's accurate to within a few hundredths of an arcsecond (amazing!). Rory is getting close to getting DOLPHOT up and running, and while I'm a little behind, I think that with Rory's help I can get DOLPHOT up and running pretty quickly as well. After this morning's meeting, it's my main goal. Once it starts producing results, I'll start using it to do photometry with Rory on the Hubble (flc.fits) data, which is already reduced. Marta is working on reducing the DIAFI data now, and once she's done (if I had to guess, about the same time I get DOLPHOT to work), Rory and I can start doing photometry on that, too. I'm getting a bit ahead of myself here, but once that's done, and it seems like it will be soon, we can start making HR-diagrams, which is very exciting. Even more exciting, if we can finish that within the next three(ish) weeks, we might be able to start some x-ray photometry. 

As far as Full-Width Half-Maximums go, I talked to Dr. G and learned what was important to know about them. I used the projection region method of getting a flux vs. WCS graph I talked about on [day seventeen](https://thom-ory.github.io/day-seventeen/) on three stars with very different fluxes and apparent sizes and estimated their FWHMs by eye. I didn't worry about numbers exactly, but tried to read the graph like any good physicist. I noticed that brighter stars may have be wider at the bottom (indicating larger apparent size), but the added height of the graph (due to their larger fluxes) means that their FWHM occur higher up on the graph, where it has already thinned out a bit. Dimmer star's have fat little graphs, so even though they have a smaller apparent size, the fatness of the graph means the FWHM of a dim star is closer to the apparent size of the star itself than a bright star's would be (not that you can actually say the full star's apparent size because of how Gaussians work). So, the FWHM is about the same size for every star in an image. Since DOLPHOT doesn't actually take FWHM as an input as far as I know (I assume it calculates it itself; I'll find out soon), I won't bother trying to calculate FWHMs anymore. 

## DOLPHOT
I spent some time this morning reading through my colleagues blogs, and now I'm using Rory's [annotations](https://ewolyror.github.io/W4D3/) on the [user manual](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/dolphot_userguide.pdf) to help me install DOLPHOT. Talking to Rory, this process actually just prepares the directories that DOLPHOT require for installation. Then, you would install DOLPHOT, but because DOLPHOT is written in C, Rory advises that this isn't worth installing the C version I should focus on PYDOLPHOT (a python wrapper for DOLPHOT) working. 

The first step to installing DOLPHOT is to compile it using the GNU `make` command in the command line. It took me a second to figure it out, but I eventually was able to point the command to the proper makefile in dolphot2.0 -- the folder I got when I first downloaded DOLPHOT and saved to my desktop -- using some syntax ('-f') I learned from [this manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html#Makefiles). Now, when I look in the folder called bin in dolphot2.0, I have a bunch of UNIX executables named photometry things like "apphot," "addstars," etc. Like Rory said at the end of [this post](https://ewolyror.github.io/W4D3/), I'm confused about the last paragraph in the installation for Mac section (ยง2.1) of [the manual](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/dolphot_userguide.pdf). It says it "is recommended to add this directory [dolphot2.0/bin/] to your path. (This is done by editing your .cshrc or .bashrc file in your home directory.)" I'm assuming the home directory is dolphot2.0, but I can't find a .cshrc or .bashrc file anywhere in there. The manual says "reccomended," so I'm hoping adding the bin to the path isn't essential, but I'm going to keep this comfusing paragraph in the back of my mind if I run into trouble later. 

Moving on, I looked
