---
published: true
---
## Crypto currency. And so what?.. (note 1. "Buts" are everywhere.)

Form the very beggining of crypto currency fewer started form Bitcoin announcement in media, i am very skeptical about it. The idea was very new and at the same time very close to me - as soon as i am in digital area of work i declare myself as very open to such 'thecnocratic' modern inventions...


But. At the same time i was shocked that there was nothing "physical" under this new currency model - nothing like "real" resources.
I'm sure everyone was on the same page those days - the whole concept seemed to be magnetic for geeks and economists, but useless in real world. How can we trade and exchange this new type of money on our commodities, if the main though was that this is just a digitalized air?..

But. The main point of the Bitcoin model for me today is not about imitation of the utility of 'some' digital data to convert it to some sort of money. It is about the search of substitution for today's physical world-linked type of currency. Search for the new type of the tool that will reflect all nowadays needs of global economics and connect it to local businesses and consumers. What is probably not sticked with such thing like gold, or oil, or diamonds. Unique to the process of production and trading, but independent of the country and labor models. 

But. Do global society, or economy really need something like this? That looks like an update version of the "US dollar" which is leading it's positions for the last 50+ years. Helping global companies in business and do all the work to stay unique and for now as it seems - independent form one particular source of physical world.

But. It is not the universal tool. We can find some gaps in the "dollar" as a global currency. 

* It was (and still is) a national currency of one particular country - so the amount and power of such currency depends on politics and economy of this county.
* It was (and still is) formally sticked to physical stock of particular minerals (like gold, or silver reserve) - so trade relations which are using dollars have dependencies on such factors as well.
Someone can say that this is how economy works - there should be lot's of such dependencies to make all parts of the model work together.

But. It looks like today's rules are too complicated for global economy - actions (like cross-border trading, or hiring human resources outside of the country) look smoother than formal part of how and how much business should pay for it. We need to hire the special guy to financial department who will calculate it for us and will probably never know if can do it in more efficient way, or cheaper.