Today didn't go quite as planned. It started with a failed meeting this morning, which was folowed by unsuccessful troubleshooting for the rest of the day. I did realize more of the useful things DOLPHOT can do for us, like CCD image reduction. I actually talked to Marta about meeting tomorrow to talk about using DOLPHOT's image reduction capabilities alongside what she's already been using and to update her on my photometry progress. Other than that, I went to the computational lab today to try and get DOLPHOT to work because after reading the manual I realize that the output I got Wednesday is actually not useful (it only detected one good source in the entire image, which should have hundreds of sources, and the second source it detected is actually too sharp to be a good source). I started by trying to use my laptop, and while most of the DOLPHOT commands are in the bin, there are a few that didn't get installed for some reason. This doesn't seems too hard to fix, but I didn't mess with it at that moment to save time. I am planning on trying to get that fixed after this post goes live, though. I moved back to the Macs and tried for awhile to get something better out of DOLPHOT, but was unsuccessful. So, I printed out DOLPHOT's manual and took it somewhere (Wooglin's) to read. I read through the parameter section again and tried to figure out better settings, and had a few ideas, but got locked out of Olin again. I'm now writing a new parameter file using the manual and am going to include every possible parameter that the manual talks about, because that's not happening at the moment. If I can manage to add those last few commands that weren't installed on my laptop tonight, I'll run the photometry again and have something tomorrow. If I can't, I'll run the photometry on the Macs tomorrow. 

# Conclusion
While it may seem progress has stagnated for the moment, and that may be partially true, there has also been a lot of work in the last few days that I just haven't had much to say about because the work often either powering through boring troubleshooting issues or is something that's helpful but not directly related to the project so I don't say much about, like getting DOLPHOT on my personal computer, which took a long time yesterday. I do think the project is cruising along swimmingly, even though I had DOLPHOT issues today. I don't want to get ahead of myself, but I think we can get to x-ray analysis before the summer ends even if we don't finish it. I will be coming in both days this weekend to try to get to that goal. 
