---
layout: post
title: Week 1 completed!
---
I've just finished my first week at CodeClan. We've dived from learning about basic data manipulation within Hashes and Arrays and started practising Test-Driven Development (TTD). The principle is this: Write a test with the expectant result. Run your program with the expectation of an error. Read the Error. Fix the Error. Repeat. The philosophy of it is simplistic and if you write your test correctly. The result is a program that hasn't been overthought and simply does what is required, instead of over designing.

The trick is in writing the test. If the parameters are too simple then you aren't testing for potentially weird situations that could produce bugs. Or cause the code to behave unexpectedly. If you have too much within your test you could be over-testing and waste time on the sound part of your program rather than working on newer sections.

It's a balance. So far the testing has also helped us continue to work on our Ruby skills as we start practising TDD. As we are all working on the code individually and tackling our errors separately (for the most part). What's also happened is that we are also creating uniquely different code that helps us see how problems can be tackled differently.

I believe this will be the technique we use throughout the rest of the course as it is a very effective way to know that our code works as we build it. Rather than discovering a flaw in our code down the road and after sinking countless hours into it.
