---
layout: post
title: eWaste Management
---

Disposal of e-Waste

My household e-waste gets recycled. The IT department of Residence coordinates with the student life staff to accept e-Waste and safely dispose of it. Starting this Fall I will actually be working for the IT team and will be helping with this! Old electronics are full of chemicals and toxins that should not be in landfills, but instead should be properly dismantled and disposed of. Recycling drop off centres will typically dismantle the e-waste and send the plastic parts to landfills. They will send recyclable metal overseas and they will dispose of any heavy metals in a safe manner. The transport of recyclable metals overseas poses a threat to the environment and to the people who are exposed to the harmful toxins that are present. E-waste needs to be properly disposed of and it is important to not just put these items in your trash can or recycling bin. Although the transport of recyclable metals has a negative impact on the environment it is important to recycle electronics at recycling drop off centres.  However, I plan to generate less e-waste by using my electronics till their expiry date. Also, I plan to get my broken electronics repaired rather than replacing them. There are many locations all over Manitoba that recycle electronics, so it is very important to find one nearest to you and bring all your old electronics to it.

[Here](https://www.recyclemyelectronics.ca/mb/where-can-i-recycle) is a link to find locations all over Winnipeg that recycle electronics.
