---
layout: post
title: Week One in Review
---


## Goals

### Settle in to the office

By the end of week one I wanted to start feeling settled into the office; know where things are, feel like I knew at least some people, and just feel comfortable and happy to come into work. I also wanted to get into good habits and build a good foundation going forwards.

I think I did a good job at meeting this goal. In particular I've found that coming into the office early (7:30am) works very well for me. It means that I have a long, productive morning when I'm more awake and enthusatic for the day, and an afternoon that doesn't drag on (since it's only a few hours long!). Overall I feel like I'm much more productive with this schedule. It's also been very easy to feel settled into the office when everyone is so friendly and welcoming :heart:

## Get back into the swing of programming

As soon as I started the coding exercise I found that I was very rusty, since I hadn't written any code in around six months. I therefore wanted to spend some time in week one getting back into the swing of things. In particular I wanted to make sure I was still using good industry practices, rather than coding like I was in a uni lab.

I still have a little ways to go on this one, but I have made good progress. I picked up git again very quickly, and in particular have started using the command line for it (rather than a gui). It turns out learning git command line is much easier when you're already comfortable with git _and_ have already learnt how to do command line rebases :laughing: As for everything else, working through the payslips exercise, then refactoring it has been a good way of forcing me to think through what I could be doing better.

---

## Tasks

### Payslips coding exercise

This was not a particually challenging exercise, but it was fantastic for learning where I'm rusty and where I need to improve. Half way through, without having been able to test anything due to the order I wrote things, I resolved that I needed to learn JUnit. I also felt like I had fallen back into bad habits from uni labs (where generally writing production-quality code is not important as much as demonstrating the concepting being taught).

After a code review with my mentors, I went back a refactored a lot of it, which was just as valuable as the original exercise. I have also started writing JUnit tests for it, and will finish them next week.

My mentors did say that I'd avoided a common pit-fall though, which was encouraging :blush:

### TDD and pair programming workshop

I had studied TDD before, so that part of this workshop wasn't really anything new. It was very useful to learn about diffrent types of pair programming though; while I've done it before, that was quite ad-hoc.

I still have a problem with TDD though, in that I always seem to just chuck out all my inital code (which generaly makes tests pass in a hard-coded, naieve sort of way). The code for the first 3-5 tests always seems so useless because of this. While the workshop didn't address this at all, it did give me time to relfect on it. Prehaps it is just the price of TDD, prehaps it can be fixed by a little planning before starting, or prehaps it just requires more practice.

### _Apprentiship Patterns_ book

I found this book a very quick, interesting read and well worth the time. It posits that the first step on the long road to mastering the craft of software development is becoming an apprentice. It also advocates enjoying this stage, where you can focus on learning rather than other obligations. Finally, it tries to instill a commitment to developing good, life-long learning habits.

### CLI workshop

This was a quick run-through by JC. While I didn't learn much I hadn't been taugh before, I _had_ forgotten pretty much all of it so it was extremely useful :laughing: I want to see if I still have any tute sheets or lecture slides from my sys tools unit, since I think they would be good revision.

### _New Programmer's Survial Manual_ book chapter 1

Chapter one of this book focused on writing good code. It advocated paying attention to writing correct, clean, modular and readable code; writing tests, and testing early and often; and making use of frequent code reviews. I look forward to reading chapter two onwards.

### String Calculator Kata

I completed this kata with Ryan, using ping-pong pair programming and TDD. It was a very good exercise to apply what we learnt in the workshop, and I enjoyed it. It also forced me to revise my regex, which was good!

---

## Takeaways

I still have a lot of things I need to learn, remember, and/or get more comfortable with. I am progressing quickly through the latter two lists though. Overall I feel that this has been a very successful first week :blush:

---

## Next Week's Goals

Next week I want to get comfortable with JUnit, vim, and the command line in general.

