It seems like I'm mostly going to be reading today. I want to look at as many resources as possible today to try and find useful information -- I'm on an information safari. I'll be looking more carefully through the resources I meantioned [last Friday](https://thom-ory.github.io/day-five/) and trying to learn about aperture photometry (the process of determining and subtracting the background flux of an image to clearly determine which excitations of the CCD in the telescope are coming from the subject source). Hopefully, I'll be ready to go back to the [photometry code](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/photometry%20practice/photometry_practice_updated.py) that I started the other day by tomorrow or Wednesday and figure out the last part of it (having to do with aperture photometry). After I get this code up and running, I should be able to take Hubble data, which is already reduced for photometry, and learn how many of the electron excitations (counts) that occurred on Hubble's CCD during the time of observation were due to photons that came from the stars in Hubble's field of view. After the code I have so far works, I need to learn how to reduce raw data (like the data I have from Diafi) so I can perform the same type of operation on that. Finally, once I have an accurate measure of the number of counts I have from each source in all the data I have from Diafi and Hubble, I'll have almost everything I need to make some initial color-magnitude diagrams. I only need to convert from counts to flux to magnitude and to get the astrometry from Marta, and she seems to be making a lot of progress with that and should have something by the time I'm ready for it. These first diagrams (which will be in the visible and infrared spectrum) won't be the most useful ones of the summer, as we're really interested in Chandra X-ray data, but we still need them to understand our sources the best we can and to understand the relationship between the x-ray and optical emissions of these sources. But, I hear that X-ray photometry is a little more difficult than optical and near-infrared photometry, so I'll cross that bridge once we extract all the information we can from Hubble and Diafi data. After we have X-ray photometry as well, we'll be able to make some real conclusions about the nature of X1, our name for the primary source of interest in NGC6819 and the catalyst for this study. 

## Github
The morning ended up being spent on a little Github maintenence (adding a new tab to this blog and creating a [research blog for GRG](https://gosnellresearchgroupsummer2018.github.io)). I also wrote a short [post](https://gosnellresearchgroupsummer2018.github.io/week-one/) recapping what GRG was able to accomplish last week, which mostly boiled down to learning, though the shortness of describing what happened last week hides how much progress was made. 

## Photometry Research
I started by reading all the posts my collaborators have made to catch up on their progress. Rory made a good [post](https://ewolyror.github.io/W2D1/) today that went through a [resource](https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html#user-documentation) I posted about [Friday](https://thom-ory.github.io/day-five/) and was planning on going through in detail today or tomorrow. I'll still do that, likely tomorrow, but it's good to see what Rory did so I can add my own perspective. Also, reading about what Marta is doing is very helpful because her work is more separate from mine than Rory's. Something useful I picked up from reading Marta's blog was her explanation of the process she went through to learn astrometry (which will be very useful when I try to learn it myself). I also posted a comment on her blog asking to look at the code she's writing because I want to understand how we're achieving both parts of this study and so far her work has seemed a little enigmatic to me.  

Next, I kept reading the [textbook](https://prappleizer.github.io/textbook.pdf) I started reading yesterday. It's useful, though doesn't pertain directly to photometry. Now that I've finished reading the chapters that I wanted to (2 and 6), I'm glad I read it since it will be useful sitting in the back of my mind as context for the coding I'm doing, but I don't expect to look at it much again. Tomorrow, I'm going to focus on the [photutils reference material](https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html#user-documentation) because I think it will relate more directly to the project. I'll also try to read up some on the theory of aperture and PSF photometry, mostly focusing on aperture. Although, I think I have a good grasp on what I need to know for now. think I should be able to take another look at the [code](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/photometry%20practice/photometry_practice_updated.py) tomorrow and maybe make something work. 

# Conclusion
Today was productive in the theoretical department. I really feel like I understand my job and how it fits into the overall project better than I have so far, as well as what Marta is doing with the astrometry. I see what the entire process is now, though I only see how to achieve some of the earlier steps at the moment. But, that's okay; I'll learn, and it's where I expect to be right now. 
