Today is going to be about trying new methods for getting a running photometry code. After reading [Marta's blog](https://gosnellgroup-marta.blogspot.com/) yesterday, the first thing that I thought was "this will be useful for learning astrometry," but I realized this morning that the process she went through to produce her code is almost exactly what I'm doing. So, I decided to use a few ideas that I got from reading her blog to help my coding today. I spent much of today going back through the first part of [photometry_practice_updated.py](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/photometry%20practice/photometry_practice_updated.py) (the first code I was working with) and beautifying it. I decided to create a new [folder] in the [NGC6819 repo](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819) that contains new, clean photometry codes that I've written. I'm still going to keep [photometry_practice_updated.py](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/photometry%20practice/photometry_practice_updated.py) in the photometry practice [folder](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/tree/master/photometry%20practice) and continue to work on it as both a way to continue learning photometry and a way to keep a record of what I did while learning it, but the codes in 

## Working on Code
The first thing is that so far I've been putting all my hope in this one code in trying to make it work, but in all honesty it's not run perfectly the first time ever (which, yeah that happens, but I did get it from an online resource that was supposed to teach professionals how to do photometry), so I don't think it's worth putting more effort than necessary into. If I do some googling I can find other codes or resources, like astonomy.net that Marta was using, to help me get this photometry done. Anyway, I still need to spend some time learning more about the code in the first place before I can claim that I can that I can do photometry. Plus, I can frankenstein whatever new code I find in with the one I'm using to make something that actually works and that I understand. 

I think that starting by reading the online photutils resource would be the best place to start because that may give me some faculty and vocubaulary I can use to generate some parts of the code on my own - possibly - and understand the code I put down as best as possible. 

## Photutils Online Resource 



Marta helped me a lot with the code. She worked with me to get a way to make it iterative so the code processes all the .fits files in a particular directory and helped me 
