---
layout: post
title: Slow Eating in a fast world.
---

Slow movement

Slow movement is the concept of "slowing down in a world that is obsessed with speed". It encourages people to set aside distractions such as social media and electronics and simply enjoy each other's company. The host, Guy Michlin, says a good way to start implementing slow movement concepts in your life is to dine with others, without electronics. This is by no means a new concept and all we have to do is reverse to our old ways! Back before technology hijacked social interactions. Slow movement also promotes health and stress relief. Slowing down allows more time to reflect and focus on your health. Which is crucial these days, where all we tend to focus on is work and career related goals. By putting down the electronics and slowing down our daily pace, we can reduce stress in our life. Finally, by implementing slow movement in our lives, we will be able to strengthen bonds between ourselves and friends and family.

That being said, in this day and age it is not easy to implement slow movement. One common challenge is overcoming the social normality of a fast paced life. By implementing slow movement in your life you will go against what the modern world thinks of as normal. One might even be seen as lazy or lethargic. The challenge of implementing slow movement into your daily life can be easily overcome by introducing slow movement to your friends and family, hopefully creating a ripple effect. Another challenge with slow movement is finding the time to implement this concept. The speed of the world is very fast and there is pressure to comply to this speed by bosses and family members. Or at least that's what one would think! I started eating more meals with my roommates and found that I somehow had more time now! You see, slow moving CREATES time. By spending time with roommates and not a TV, meals are shorter but more rewarding. Like all things, quality not quantity! A challenge with slow movement is finding a good pace that works with your life and with the others around you. The last challenge with the slow movement is finding others who also live a "slow" life. Many people feel the pressure to be constantly checking their phones and live a fast paced life. You cannot change the way other people work and carry out their day. Therefore, a challenge with the slow movement is finding others who will live a "slow" life with you.

I would like to implement some more parts of the slow movement in my life. I think it will help lower my stress levels and bolster the relationships I have with my friends. I plan on trying to make small changes every day to ensure some "slow" aspects are in my life. One thing I plan on doing is using my phone less. I also plan on sitting down and enjoying dinners more often, with no distractions. These are just a few small changes I will make that will greatly benefit my health and my relationships with friends.
