This week has been one of intense coding for all of us. We still don't have any information related to our study, but have made a lot of progress with regard to developing the tools we need to extract that information from our data. Rory and Thom have both been working independently on photometry codes and coming together when we're both in the lab to compare them, while Marta has made good progress on her astrometry and has been able to generate some useful diagnostics for the accuracy of her astrometry. 

## Photometry
So far, the photometry team has been focusing on source detection and has made some good progress. We are able to subtract the background from an image and find the sources therein using a couple of different techniques (namely source masking and sigma-clipping), but these are not the most accurate techniques there are. Our codes will be stepping up a dimension this week from subtracting the background as a scalar to subtracting it as a 2D array, and we will also be delving into aperture photometry. We're also planning on following Marta's lead by doing photometry on some well-known sources and comparing our photometry to the accepted values for those sources, verifying the accuracy of the photometry we do on the source. [samsd.py](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/Rory's%20Codes/samsd.py) is Rory's source detection code, and [source_detection.py](https://github.com/GosnellResearchGroupSummer2018/NGC6819/blob/master/photometry%20codes/source_detection.py) is Thom's. As you can see, they're both very similar at this point, though Rory's code is using an example image from photutils while Thom's is using a random, arbitrary Hubble image. 

## Astrometry
Marta's code, [codeA.ipynb](), looks at Diafi field A and compares the source detection of astrometry.net to the known locations of stars from the GAIA source catalogue. So far, she has [accuracy](https://gosnellgroup-marta.blogspot.com/2018/07/result-analysis.html) to within about one arcsecond or a little more, which is just barely not quite what we need; we need to get better than one arcsecond accuracy. Once both my and Rory's codes are accurate, we can give the pixel coordinates of sources we detect to Marta who will give us accurate WCS data in all bands. 

# Conclusion
We're making progress, though most of it is not very flashy or easy to wrap up in one post. Our codes should be ready to start doing real science within two weeks. To see more detailed descriptions of the work we do on a daily basis, read our [personal research blogs](https://gosnellresearchgroupsummer2018.github.io/people/). 
