---
layout: post
title: __init__
---

My name is Gianluca and I'm a Data Scientists. I just recently moved to New York but lived in London (UK) for almost 6 years. I have a true passion for Machine Learning and, in particular, on how to solve real-life business problems using it. In particular, I'm quite interested in how Machine Learning can impact healthcare.

I recently came through [this old blog post](https://medium.com/@racheltho/why-you-yes-you-should-blog-7d2544ac1045) from Rachel Thomas where she encourages everyone to start its own blog and decided to follow the advice and head first into this new idea. I'm not new to blogging ― I had one blog about Analytics quite a few years ago ― but haven't published anything for a long time. During this time, I read tons of books, took a few online classes, learned a few new languages (Python and Java), discovered a new modeling framework (Bayesian Inference) and worked on a bunch of very interesting high-impact projects. 

Sharing, however, has always been important to me for two reasons:

* Helps you learn,
* It's a way to give back to the community.

So, why not to start a blog about my passion?

My goal is to update this space with some good quality content at least once per month. I'm planning to post several kinds of content, from textbook reviews to Computer Science and Machine Learning algorithms. The idea is simple, write about anything I find interesting and worth sharing.

Stay tuned for my next article, and in the meantime, happy coding!
