---
layout: post
title: Project 1 Generative Art
---

1/22/2019

    First project idea is to have crypto currencies move into a different position 
    around the moon with each play/click.

    I had trouble with uploading images because they were too big. Solved by 
    generating assets of the .psd files. This was tedious but now all crypto 
    coins are uploading on p5.js web editor.

1/24/2019

    Also made a space background in photoshop and uploaded to p5.js web editor. I got the 
    crypto currencies to rotate positions based on a switch. No random function implemented.

1/29/2019

    Ended with updated p5.js with a moon and positions of currencies. Thinking 
    about changing my project to something more interesting. Left class thinking
    of ideas of ways I can change it.

1/30/2019

    Snow Day! Perfect! Ended up changing my idea and working on the project. Instead of doing 
    crypto currencies revolving around the moon. I made pictures of an apple being eaten
    on photoshop and uploaded the pictures on p5.js.

    It took me awhile figuring out how to loop through the pictures with each click. I tried mixtures of 
    for loops and switch statements in different functions before I solved my problem. Ended up using 
    a switch statement and the value of the expression incremented with each click. I also 
    found images of an orange being eaten on google and uploaded them on p5.js. Using the same structure
    as the apple it was easy to implement the orange switch statement.

    By the end of the day, I coded two generative ellipse plates for each fruit (they change size with each click) and 
    changed the background color with each run.

1/31/2019

    My final project ended up being a completley different thing than I first imagined. I learned more on photoshop,
    how to generate random sized shapes, and how to change there color with each run.

You can find it here: https://editor.p5js.org/jri24Spring2019/present/STr3uPsLX


