---
layout: post
title: The Augmented Body: Project 2
---

For this project we had to compose three different images with different styles. One with straight lines, second with curvy lines,
and the third with both.

After I saw a few examples I decided to do my project over The Thinker, a bronze sculpture by Auguste Rodin.

Creating the lines for the first composition was tedious. Mainly because I wanted the outline to be pretty close to the original.
It ended up pretty good. After I finished I copied the outline a few times and changed messed with the coordinates to be different
from the original. It almost looks like he was sketches so that's pretty cool.

My second composition started and ended a few different times. It took a few tries to figure out what I wanted to do. Bezier curves weren't
too bad just took sometime to get the control points right. I decided to create lines flowing through his body. I tried to make all the lines
connect to make it seem contininous until they reach the end of the sculptures body. After I finished the second one it became my favorite.

I felt a little confined after my first two I wanted to do something completely different for the third. At first I wanted to have sunlight
rays hitting off the sculpture and bouncing off. First I created a more rough outline compared to my first outline. And added fill so they had
different color between each section of his section. I couldn't get the rays to look just right on him so I decided the bezier curves should
connect to him like he was plugged in to something. After I did this it seemed like I had a cyberpunk theme going on with my third piece which I'm
a huge fan of. This one instantly conquered the throne for being my favorite.

Decided to make a new composition that changes the color of the sections on his body every update() in draw. Although not part of the "static image"
requirmenet I wanted to make something that truluy completed my piece.

This project was really fun. Although it took a bit longer to plug in the coordinates it was well worth it.
I didn't think creative coding would be this fun. Excited to do more projects and learn more.

Here is my project:
https://editor.p5js.org/jri24Spring2019/sketches/bFON4_-EU
