---
layout: post
title: Lesson 1: Binary Numbers
permalink: /Lesson-1/
author: Garrett Van Beek
---
# Lesson 1: Binary numbers

### What is binary?
At their most simple level, computers are basically a collection of semi-conductors turned on and off. We use __binary__ to represent these on and off switches.

__Binary__ is a counting system. Counting systems are the symbols used to represent numbers. The most widely used counting system is known as __decimal__. In decimal, there are ten symbols `0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9` used to represent different numbers (zero through nine). When we run out of symbols to represent our numbers, we add a new __place value__. For example, 9 is the highest symbol in the number system, when we represent the number ten, we add a place value and start the one's place at 0.
`9 -> 10`

Binary is a counting system that only uses two symbols to represent a number (1 and 0). We use it for computer science because we can represent a semi-conductor that is turned off with a 0. We represent a semi-conductor that is turned on with a 1. You can also think of binary numbers in terms of __True__ (1) and __False__ (0). We call each place value that contains a 1 or a 0 a __bit__. 8 bits make up one __byte__. Modern computers are built on millions of bytes that are connected.

### Practice
#### 1. Write the following decimal numbers as 4-bit binary numbers.
0
1
2
3
4
5
7
14
8
<details>
  <summary> Solutions </summary>
  | Decimal | Binary |
  |--------:|-------:|
  | 0 | 0000 |
  | 1 | 0001 |
  | 2 | 0010 |
  | 3 | 0011 |
  | 4 | 0100 |
  | 5 | 0101 |
  | 7 | 0111 |
  | 14 | 1110 |
  | 8 | 1000 |
</details>

#### 2. Write the following 4-bit binary numbers in decimal.
0101
1010
1111
0010
1000
1101
<details>
  <summary> Solutions </summary>
  | Binary | Decimal |
  |-------:|--------:|
  | 0101 | 5 |
  | 1010 | 10 |
  | 1111 | 15 |
  | 0010 | 2 |
  | 1000 | 8 |
  | 1101 | 13 |
</details>

### Activity 1: Numbers as Redstone
Using what you know about binary, pick a random positive number and write it by turning `Redstone torches` (or `Redstone Lamps`) on or off. Redstone torches that are turned on represent a 1 and Redstone torches that are turned off represent a 0.
