---
layout: post
title: My First Blog Post!
---

Before getting started, I think it makes sense to begin with a brief introduction. My name is Dennis van Ee (the reason "v" is lowercase can be found [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Van_(Dutch)#Collation_and_capitalisation)) and I’m a first year masters student at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) studying computer science. Though I haven’t actually started my masters program yet. Before this, I was an undergraduate student at UCLA as well.

With that little introduction out of the way, we can get to the point of this first blog post: why I’m starting a blog at all.

Well, this actually isn’t my first foray into blogging. A couple of years ago, as an undergrad, I started a blog but abandoned it shortly after (leaving just a wordpress blog with a single post in much the same vein as this one). That blog is still up (but I’m not sure for how long) and so was my reason for starting it, but I’ll repeat that reason here:

A while ago I attended SIGGRAPH 2018 in Vancouver (it was my first time) as a student volunteer (my experience of which I’ll dedicate another post to). At the time I interned at Walt Disney Imagineering Tech Studio at the Lucasfilm Campus. While there, I met with the VP of Tech Studio, Bei Yang. With his help, I got invited to a so-called "SIGGRAPH Party" (of which there are many hosted by different groups and companies, as those who have attended SIGGRAPH before are sure aware of). This party was specifically for Disney’s R&D division, but that doesn’t mean only folks from Disney attended (I actually met one of my professors at the party!). It was the first time I was invited to a “professional” party of this sort (I had opportunities in college but always had some sort of conflict) and decided to take full advantage of the networking possibilities of being there. I hunted down Bei, who was kind enough to introduce me to Rajesh Sharma who introduced me to Dan Teece who then introduced me to Yinning Karl Li. Now, before I attended SIGGRAPH I had been reading [Yinning Karl Li’s blog](https://blog.yiningkarlli.com/). I stumbled on his blog a while ago when I was looking something up for a research project I was working on (what exactely escapes me at this moment). I remember seeing an image on his blog produced by his hobby renderer and thinking how cool it was. I read other posts on his block and stumbled upon [*Physically Based Rendering: From Theory to Implementation*](http://www.pbr-book.org/) by Matt Pharr, Greg Humphreys, and Pat Hanrahan. Ever since then I had been self-studying path guiding and offline rendering. While speaking with him at the party, he encouraged me to start my own blog to help me organize my thoughts. I thought this was a great idea and, so, started my own blog shortly after attending SIGGRAPH. However, one thing led to another and I abandoned the project soon after (posting only once). I’m not sure exactly why I did, it just sort of happened. 

Ever since then I have gained a lot more experience: interning at more places (DreamWorks and Epic Games) and progressing more on my renderer. As I was working my way through an HPG paper, taking notes and trying to "dumb it down" for myself, I thought: "hey, this would be the perfect kind of post for my blog!". Now, at this point it had been years since I even touched that old blog of mine so I decided to start anew. I plan on going through different rendering related papers weekly (though I make no promises that this will, indeed, be weekly) and try to "dumb them down" for myself. Let me preface this by saying that I'm no expert (heck, I often suffer from imposter syndrome) and so my dumbed down explanations may gloss over too much (or be completely off). By presenting these posts on a public forum I hope to induce a certain rigor in myself that encourages me to be as correct as I can be. Also, in the unlikely case that someone else reads these posts, feel free to message me via [email](mailto:den.vanee@gmail.com) or comment on one of my posts to correct any mistakes I may have made. If this does get popular enough, hopefully this will also prove a useful place for people to try and digest complicated research papers.
