I recently read "No Rules Rules" which describes how Netflix's culture
came to be. Its a pretty nicely written book, structured like a dialogue
between Reed Hastings and Erin Meyer where each of them bring in
different perspectives on how they view Netflix's cultural
idiosyncracies. Netflix's top priorities revolve around

*High Talent Density*: Netflix believes in attracting the best talent by
paying the best of market. Reed believes its better to have a small
group of outstanding people than a larger group of average people, as
excellence rubs off on each other. This in turn motivates each
employee to know their market value, and Netflix encourages its
employees to answer recruiter calls to benchmark their market value.

*Freedom and Responsibility*: Netflix encourages employess to own
their work and make decisions with little bureaucratic overhead of
approvals and proceesses. The reason being, employees know their work
better than their bosses, and Netflix prioritizes agility and
innovation over error prevention. 

*Culture of Feedback*: This is one of the fascinating aspects of
Netflix culture. Candor. Open feedback that goes both down and
**up**. They seem to have even developed  a framework on how to provide and
receive feedback. Most feedback should adhere to the  *4As*-  1) Aim
to Assist, 2) Actionable, 3) Appreciate, 4) Accept or Discard. As
Netflix went global they added a 5th A - Adapt, the feedback to the
culture of the feedback receiver.


As a fast moving company, Netflix has also developed a framework for
Innovation, which can be summarized as 

- Farm for Dissent/Socialize

- For a big idea..test it out

- As the informed captain, take a bet

- Celebrate but definitely sunshine

While Netflix's culture is designed for organizations, I believe there
are some learnings that one can take away.

*Take control of your work and career* Freedom and Responsiblity prevents
intellectual lethargy by depending on someone else to make the
decisions. Instead own your career and work and take the tough
decisions. 

*Feedback*: Solicit feedback as much as you can..Better to know the
horrible truth upfront than live a false life.
