---
layout: post
title: Raspberry Pi - Tips and tricks
---

## Headless NOOBS installation ##

Alright, so i got this raspi 3 b + with 4 gb ram. Works great for my small projects or running my own home assistant at home, even works as a ad blocker on DNS level. 
Now i dont like pluging it in tv and use it as desktop. > 
 Thats why i use a headless installation approch. 
####  Where to start ? > >  > > > >>>>>

#Requirements:

    -Raspi, In my case I am using Raspi 3 b plus.
    -Micro SD card, as a hard disk and to store OS.
    -The reader of a micro SD card.
    -External power, to powering raspi. Any smartphone which has a matching plug with raspi will do. A few sources on the internet say the optimal current is 2.5A.
    -WI-FI network.
    
+ Prepare your micro SD card. If needed, you must format your SD card first. Raspi officially recommended using SD Memory Card Formatter and I personally recommended it too after I had an issue using the fdisk command and GParted when I want to format my SD card. This tool successfully formats my SD card. Format it as FAT32.
+ Download NOOBS on the official [website of raspi.] (https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/). A big ass literal link <https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/>
+ Extract the NOOBS zip file to the micro SD card.
+ In the os directory in your micro SD card, delete all directories except Raspian.
+ In your micro SD card directory, edit recovery. cmdline file. You will find a 1 line command. In that line, add silentinstall at the end of the line. This will enable the NOOBS to install the Raspian automatically when you insert the micro SD card and turn on the raspi for the first time.
+ Create a file name it wpa_supplicant.conf in your micro SD card directory. Its content is

network={
    ssid="ssid_name"
    psk="password"
}

ssid is your WI-FI network name and psk is the password of the WI-FI network.

+ Create an empty file named ssh. It will enable you to remote your raspi via SSH.
+ Insert the micro SD card into the raspi and turn it on. The raspi will automatically install Raspbian and then restart itself and connect to the wifi automatically. The installation will take some time.
+ When the raspi connects to the WI-FI, remote it via ssh with

User: pi
Password: raspberry

If you can't find the IP of SSH, use the nmap command to do a port scan. For example, the range IP of your WI-FI network is 192.168.4.0 till 192.168.4.255

nmap 192.168.4.0/24 or just use a app. btw android does the MAC identification pretty good, so try android for better result.

Try to connect with all IPs that have an SSH port open and connect it via ssh with the above user and password. Congratulation you successfully connected with your raspi headless.
