---
layout: post
title: Welcome to my kitchen!
---

I like to cook and I love to bake. Really, I just like creating. And when my creations are also things my loved ones or I can enjoy, that’s even better!

But here’s the thing - *I’m only an average cook*. 

As much as I love cooking, I am not where I’d like to be. I want to cook and bake better. I want to impress my husband or our guests with something delicious.

I will say that I am pretty consistent with the critical few recipes that we have regularly. However, when I try something new, even with a recipe, it’s more often a miss than a hit. The food is usually edible, but it’s often never fantastic and I rarely attempt it again. I know I need the practice of trying a recipe a couple of times and figuring out where I need to tweak it for me to love it. That’s hard, though. If the first time through wasn’t the best, why keep trying to make something you didn’t love?

I can’t be the only one out there who loves working away in the kitchen (except doing dishes - I hate doing dishes. Thank goodness for dishwashers!) but experiences disappointment with some of their results. I hope you’ll join me on my journey to improve my skills in the kitchen. I would love for you to share your tips with me too!

Here's just a bit of what you can expect.

**Recipe Attempts & Results**

I’m going to give various recipes a try and will follow the instructions to a T! Then I’ll share the results - the good and the bad. (I’m a trained Industrial Engineer so I often look for “shortcuts” in an attempt to save time and become more efficient. I will refrain from those shortcuts.)

**Recipe Ratings**

Outside of just attempting recipes and sharing the results, you can also expect my honest opinion about the recipes. Recipes can be challenging to write because you have to anticipate how someone will interpret your instructions (There is a great PB&J exercise to highlight the importance of clear instructions.) I’ll rate recipes and score them based on my experience.

**Cooking Class Experiences**

I love cooking classes! I try to soak up every tip the chef shares and I find that I recall little tidbits of information from classes I took years ago to this day.

**Kitchen Conversations**

Kitchens are definitely becoming the new gathering space in many homes. What a wonderful place to have a chat with a loved one! We’ll also have some of our own kitchen conversations about recipes, ingredients, tools and techniques, and more. 

I want to become a great home cook for myself and my family. Improvement takes practice; it takes patience; it takes positivity. 

I will cook better today than yesterday!
