---
layout: post
title: Working with GitHub
---

I've been working for over 15 years with the Microsoft source control solution, now known as **Azure DevOps** but formerly TFS, and formerly VSTS, and formerly Visual Studio Sorce Safe. Everytime they change the name, they also added new features and the way it worked, evolving from a simple source control tool to cover the whole development cycle. I was (am) very happy with it, but then Microsoft bought **GitHub** and adopted Git to replace VSTS. It made me give a look to Git and GitHub (later I found out they're not the same) and after struggling to understand their concepts (breaking my paradigms) I ended loving it.

I learned why **GitHub** became the most important open source repository. But I didn't take it serious for any other kind of projects. But the changes Microsoft did made it more

Now I'm using both. **GitHub** for my personal projects or for open source repositories (and documentation like this blog itself [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/))

Even though **GitHub** integrates with Microsoft Visual Studio (Code and VS 2019) and it makes it easy to work with it, there are some tasks where you still need (or feel more comfortable with) trough the command line. This article resumes the steps for the most common tasks with GitHub:

- Create a new repository
- Clone the repository
- [Store credentials](#store-credentials) (to connect to GitHub)
- Add files to the repository
- Commit changes
- Push changes
- Fetch changes
- Pull changes
- Working with branches
- Forking

# Store credentials {#store-credentials}

[Original reference](https://www.shellhacks.com/git-config-username-password-store-credentials/)

- If you didn't cloned the repository already:
  ´ \$ git clone https://**USERNAME**:**PASSWORD**@github.com/*path/to/repo*.git`

- If you already cloned the repository:
