
Working with the Zephyr RTOS, the use of `west` isn't essential, but it does
make a lot of sense to have the mechanisms of building abstracted away nicely
by some pretty tooling.

Besides, `west` is pretty useful as a replacement for the `repo` tool on
projects beyond Zephyr.  Both work rather similar, with one being using YAML
parsing and the other using an XML parser.  I prefer to look at YAML.

The biggest downfall to both of these tools I find is that users do not often
update the versions.  At least `repo` has a message to warn that you are using
an old version, but even then it is unlikely they will update.  Especially if
installed via their Linux package manager and not downloaded directly from the
source.

Note, all behaviors in here are found in `west` version 0.9.0 so later versions
may behave differently.

### Create A Basic Manifest

Starting with a basic project, we create a manifest file that looks like:

```
#
# module-a/west.yml:
#
projects:
  - name: group_module_b
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_b
  - name: group_module_c
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_c
  - name: single_module_d
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_d
  - name: single_module_e
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_e

self:
  path: module-a
```

This project defines itself as `module-a` and pulls a few additional projects
in to create it's world.  Pretty standard stuff.

### Creating A Super West

Now let's assume you have a project where multiples of these modules are being
developed independent of each other but all need to work together.  At some
point you will arrive to the standard computer science solution of creating
another layer of abstraction.  In the case of `west`, that layer of abstraction
is creating a parent repo with it's own `west.yml` to pull together the multiple
modules and create a world.

That project's manifest would looks remarkably like:

```
#
# project-a/west.yml:
#
projects:
  - name: group_module_a
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_a
    revision: aaaaaaa
    import: true
  - name: group_module_b
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_b
    revision: bbbbbbb
    import: true
  - name: group_module_c
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_c
    revision: ccccccc
    import: true

self:
  path: project-a
```

When we re-constitute the world using project-a/west.yml everything works fine
with the name resolution of project-a.  Summarized poorly as `self` >
`projects` > `project imports`.  Note that in project-a we do not concern
ourselves with details of what the modules themselves need to build their
world.  Thanks to the name resolution rules and the use of the `import` flag,
project-a allows those module projects to define what their borders look like
without worrying about name collision.

Yes, I realize the revisions don't exist but they are not the point of focus
here other than to show that they are all some different value.

Having a parent repo like this opens up additional details that can be applied
to project-a.  For example, project-a can be used to track module packages that
all work together.  We can call it something that went through some kind of
functional testing and reached a verified state.  You may even add a tag to each
so you can track when the decision that is made.

### Introducing First Dependency Chain

At this point you may turn around and say something like "hey modules testing
requires knowing the specific command set used by the project and we want to
always use the same command set."  Seems reasonable enough.  Now you add your
first circular dependency to the manifests, by having the modules point to a
specific tag of project-a.  For example, the manifest for module-a will now look
like:

```
#
# module-a/west.yml:
#
projects:
  - name: group_module_b
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_b
  - name: group_module_c
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_c
  - name: single_module_d
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_d
  - name: single_module_e
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_e
+  - name: project_a
+    remote: github
+    repo-path: project_a
+    revision: SOME_TAG

self:
  path: module-a
```

Now all developers of modules can run the tests exactly like the project-a does
and it will be updated as a process when project-a does.  Pretty neat!

And thanks to the west name resolution, we do not break the ability to re-create
the world in any of the modules or in the project manifests.

### Introducing Second Dependency

As the days go by, you may find yourself saying "hey module-a uses module-b and
module-c, but the developers of module-a only want to use those modules that
have been validated".  Again, seems reasonable enough.  The `west` tooling even
has the ability to do this through the `name-allowlist` (formerly
`name-whitelist`).  So let us adapt our `module-a/west.yml` to pull in our test
product combinations.  Now we can modify the module manifests to do this:

```
#
# module-a/west.yml:
#
projects:
-  - name: group_module_b
-    remote: github
-    repo-path: module_b
-  - name: group_module_c
-    remote: github
-    repo-path: module_c
-  - name: project-a
-    remote: github
+    repo-path: project-a
+    import:
+      name-allowlist:
+        - group_module_b
+        - group_module_c
+    revision: SOME_TAG
  - name: single_module_d
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_d
  - name: single_module_e
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_e

self:
  path: module-a
```

Now the modules can all pull down a validated combination of each other and work
independently.  There are some challenges with this approach, such as what
happens with API breaking changes, but those are beyond the scope of this
discussion.

### Broken World

Now comes the interesting part.

While the modules are all happy, the project-a is no longer.  Clone and setup an
instance of project-a, once you hit the step of `west udpate` we see something
interesting in the process.  Specifically we see that the initial clone of
project-a gets switched out to being that of the first listed modules defined version.

This is not what was expected and violates the poorly summarized rules of west
resolution mentioned earlier as the project clearly identifies itself as
project-a and the modules consume it as project-a, so it is not in the name
problem.  The problem comes from the `name-allowlist` processing, which throws
the entire parsing off.

### Work-Around

This can be worked around by modifying the project-a manifest to ignore the
entries that would take over ownership of the project-a manifest.  The west
tooling even provides the mechanism with `name-blocklist` (formerly
`name-blacklist`).  Modifying the project-a manifest to look like:

```
#
# project-a/west.yml:
#
projects:
  - name: group_module_a
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_a
    revision: aaaaaaa
-    import: true
+    import:
+      name-blocklist:
+        - project-a
  - name: group_module_b
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_b
    revision: aaaaaaa
-    import: true
+    import:
+      name-blocklist:
+        - project-a
  - name: group_module_c
    remote: github
    repo-path: module_c
    revision: aaaaaaa
-    import: true
+    import:
+      name-blocklist:
+        - project-a

self:
  path: project-a
```

This works really well to enable project-a to re-build the world.  It does add
additional effort on the upstream consumers of the modules manifest files to be
aware of this change in the name resolution process.
