---
layout: post
title:  "MQTT - Way faster than HTTP for IoT"
description: I started working on MQTT unexpectedly while helping a friend on a facial recognition camera with temperature detecting capabilities. While he was using HTTP GET/POST methods to send data to the hub. Which is great!, its working and the result are getting on time. But something bugged. What if we can make this even better and faster. Well here we are looking into MQTT. Join with me for an adventure ..... >.< 
tags: MQTT IoT Messaging Automation
permalink: /MQTT:)
---

# What is MQTT?
"MQTT is an OASIS standard messaging protocol for the IoT. It is designed as an extremely lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport that is ideal for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, oil and gas, etc."
 - mqtt.org
 
 - Its lightweight 
  MQTT clients are ver ysmall, require minimal resources so can be used on small microcontrollers. MQTT message headers are small to optimize network bandwidth.
  
 - Bi-directional comms
  MQTT allows for messaging between device to cloud and cloud to device. This makes for easy broadcasting messages to groups of things.
  
 - Scale of Millions of things
  MQTT can scale to connect with millions of IoT devices.
  
  .... Many more
  
  # MQTT vs HTTP POST
 
 " According to mesurements in 3G networks, throughout of MQTT is 93 times faster than HTTP's" - [Medium.com](https://medium.com/mqtt-buddy/mqtt-vs-http-which-one-is-the-best-for-iot-c868169b3105)
 
 #How does it work?
 
 To make MQTT work we need a publisher to publish the information like temperature, speed, air quality to MQTT broker(server), thats when client or subscriber will go to the server to read the data.
 
 # Example - > 
 
 So currrently I have a ip camera running MQTT service at port 1883.... to be continued 
