---
layout: post
title: Gids Summit!
---

What an amazing four days! 

At around 5.30 in the evening, I walked out of the session, gathered at our usual place, and booked a cab after clicking a few pictures and ensuring we all were smiling and had #GIDS in the frame.

On the way back to the room, I was full of ideas to be put into practice from everything I had learned over the past four days. When our cab stopped at a RED signal, I reached into the bag for the notes to validate the base of intuitive thought I was pondering, but I could not find my notes in the bag; I said that I had lost my notes. Everyone checked their bags and helped me recollect where I might have forgotten it. We crossed several more signals before I got off the cab. When I entered the campus, delegates were clicking photographs, and the booths that shared immense and inspiring knowledge were being dismantled. Soon I reflected aforethought of losing all I had learned, which scared me a lot. I posted on Linkedin that I had lost my notes and shared an excerpt of my handwriting, as my notes did not have my name. I reported the same at the help desk.

I started to walk back to the room, jogging my memory about where I could have lost it, and I often drifted into memory lane of the talk in which I could recollect the entire conference, including where I sat in the halls. I realized I could recall and recompile the notes before my memory could fade. Soon I took a cab and reached to the room. 

Day 1: I walked up to the J N Tata auditorium with the QR code I obtained after registration, and there were four queues in which people were standing to receive an ID card and a tote bag containing a notebook with the schedule. After a smooth entry, a long line led to the breakfast and coffee. I went into the auditorium, and it was getting packed rapidly; I found a seat, and after a brief introduction about the expo, the keynote session on decision dials started. A decision is not a switch with on/off but several dials whose range can be adjusted. Duplication is less evil than coupling, and it is not either coupling or duplication. The talk got me thinking about the decisions I took in the past, and I ended up writing a list of to-dos to address. Throughout the rest of the day, the talk impacted me, I  planned what I should be attending that day, but with an objective, I compromised on a few to attend others, filling up my notes. That was an enlightening day. I remember I thought to myself, walking under the Bengaluru trees while the sun was setting down.

Photographs are just for the sake of the moment's memory but have no intrinsic value.
While recompiling these notes, my memory could have been better. At times, I needed to catch up on a few things. Still, when I opened my gallery and looked at photographs, I clicked during the day with the speakers and their talks and asked myself questions when, where, what motivated me for this, and why was I the way I was in the picture; I got to resolve my flaky memory and recollection started to flow. Kudos to the event photographers who captured all the moments of the event to make it memorable.
  
Day-2 Saltmarch were so agile that they devised ways to reduce the queue length and save time, be it at security, breakfast, coffee, or lunch. Sufficiently Advanced Technology, Software & Sorcery, this talk inspired me to learn tangentially, learn new things, and never pause to create mental models. The speaker challenged us to walk into a talk that was entirely new to us. Out of curiosity about its effects, I walked into talks which are new to me. I remember the astonishment with which I was jotting what the speaker spoke and the different perspective it gave me about the work I had been doing thus far. That day I also visited a few booths, learned about their products and use cases, participated in their quizzes and crosswords, and won some swag. Some use cases left me puzzled and led me to research them.

While I was being random about my choices that day to get exposure to more mental models, the jog through the memory lane, which seemed like a maze, was a bit difficult. I wanted to wait for the videos, being recorded by videographers sitting through all the talks, to come out on the 15th of May to compile the notes for this day. But soon realized that I would be in a different frame of mind than I am today and might lose a few new ideas that were triggered while in the talk in the presence of diverse delegates and kept moving forward. I referred to the Gids social media contest tag on Linkedin, organized for delegates to share tiny notes made during the talk with books as a giveaway; this made my exit through the maze faster and smoother.

Day-3 By the time I reached the hall, it was full, and a new hall had been arranged with a live telecast of the same in no time. The talk was about how to think like an architect. That day I visited more booths and learned about the architecture they have in their products. All of them were open to sharing their pivotal decision and tradeoffs that led their product to be where it is now. I also learned to trap one of the five thieves responsible for leaving me without a seat in the main hall. 

That day I remember to have learned more about the products at the expo and their other use cases. Mob Mentality talk inspired me to discuss with other colleagues their findings of that day and fuelled me to compile the notes for that day without depending solely on my memory of the day.

Day-4 The thief was trapped, and I was 15mins early to the talk on MetaModernism and found a seat with a view of my comfort. I was blown away by the scale of topics covered in the talk, cultural evolution, meta-modern architecture, and ethics a developer must have. I was staring into the void, questioning how ethical I have been so far in my career, as a developer, for a moment. For the rest of the day, I could not help myself from listening to the product talks from an ethical point of view though they may have an optimal architecture.

The only thing I could not jog through was all the information exchanged over coffee, lunch, and breakfast with other delegates and their contacts I have gathered in my notes. Luckily a day after I recompiled my notes, a person saw my post titled "lost notes" on Linkedin and reached out to me. Only after the person got convinced that we sat adjacent to each other during the last talk and I must have misplaced my notes in that person's tote bag, as all our bags were the same and given to us Saltmarch, he agreed to courier me my notes. Appreciate his efforts and responsibility in giving it to the rightful owner.