---
layout: post
title: Preparing an F31
---

The Ruth L. Kirschstein Predoctoral Individual National Research Service Award or the F31 is a predoctoral award that provides a stipend and some research allowances for predoctoral students. It is a fellowship provided by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Preparing an F31 is an ardious tasks that involves many moving components but it can be quite rewarding once completed, and even more rewarding if funded. I prepared an F31 in my second year of graduate school. It was not funded but I learned a lot on how to navigate the grant process, grant writing, and management. On top of all that, there was the research proposal writing itself. I am writing down some tips that can help others prepare their application. These tips can also be applied to other fellowships and grants. 

## Reach out to the Office of Sponsored Programs
You may think that your mentor is the most important person that will aid you in preparing an F31. This is not entirely true. The Office of Sponsored Programs or your departmental research grant administrator is the most important person when preparing the F31. They will guide you on preparing the documents needed for an F31 application, which can be more than 50 pages. The F31 and many of the NIH awards require multiple documents in addition to the __Research Strategy__ and __Specific Aims__. It is also not as simple as pressing the submit button. As I mentioned, the research grant admin will gather the documents you prepare and create a 50 page document. They will submit this on your behalf. In fact, they usually have an internal deadline about a week or two prior to the one set by the NIH. This is the time they use to prepare your application. This is why it is incredibly important to reach out to your research grant administrator in advance when thinking about preparing an F31. They will tell you the internal deadlines and provide a checkist of documents that you need to prepare. 

## Figure out which funding institute aligns with your research
There are multiple organizations at the NIH that participate in funding the F31. You will submit your application to only one of these organizations. Each organization has their own mission or high priority research that they will fund. You will need to research each one to see which aligns with your research. Furthermore, once you find an organization, you will need to reach out to the program director to discuss your research strategy. They can often tell you directly if it is within the mission of their organization. 
