---
layout: post
title: "The best book you will ever read"
author: tbusch15
published: true
---


With 26 letters in the English alphabet, put together in different orders to make words, forming sentences, creating stories, written in books, there are now nearly 130 million books that have been published in all modern history. With so many books to read, it’s difficult to narrow down what one is the absolute best, or to even define the best of what. Therefore, I had set out this semester to see if I can find a way that books have been favored in time; information that could help to find the “best”. 

For my research data of top literature, I selected [The New York Times Best Sellers]( http://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/) as my book list to research, as I believe that it would accurately represent what books are the best at a given time. I understand that you must buy a book before you read it, but unless a book is favored by many and then well-known, people may not know it is even out there. So, I was comfortable with using this list as my initial data for my research. To assure that I evaluated enough books over time, I decided to use for my data the top five bestselling books of [combined print & e-book fiction]( http://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/combined-print-and-e-book-fiction) during two times a year over the span of a decade. I selected print and e-book as the world is becoming more digital and many people are reading books on digital devices. As the way that you read the book does not affect the data in changing the gender and more people have switched to the e-book form of reading, I felt it was a more inclusive list of those that have decided to buy the book making it a best seller. Of the 100 books that I should have evaluated for my research, I was only able to reach 85 books from this selected list. I did allow for my data set to be adjusted as to when e-books were not an option, switching to just printed text, however was unable to access all of the history of the desired list. 

I’ve decided to evaluate one of the most important aspects of a book for my report: the characters. But not just the characters themselves, but the gender of them and how their gender affects their rank in top literature works. With all the different genres and other ways to classify books, character gender identity is one thing that is independent of all other novel factors and can easily be a measurable factor across all the books selected. Therefore, I claim that literature with a higher male to female ratio would rank higher in the list of top literature. 

Before I sound like a cisgender androcentric male I would like to clarify something about myself, the writer of this article, as well as define the reasons that I am using to support my claim. Despite being raised as a middle-class Caucasian Christian Chicago-South-suburb male, my loving family has raised me to be very open and accepting to everyone for every reason. As such, I have been as supportive to others as much as I can, eventually becoming the President of the LGBTQ+ organization at my University, making changes to what it previously was to assured it was not restricted to those of certain sexual orientation, but inclusive and accepting to all no matter who they were, including their gender identity. (That is just one aspect that is mentioned due to its relevance to this article.) For my reasoning supporting my claim, to simply put my decision for supporting higher male ration books at better ranked is due to a belief of the sexism within our world. As men have often held higher positions throughout history, had more rights, and given more opportunities, I believe that this is something that may be rooted into our culture causing a favorability toward male characters in books to be better ranked. 

From the selected data that I researched, I discovered that 49 books had more male than female characters, 11 had more female characters, and 25 had and equal amount of male and female characters (Table 1). This data is evidence of my believed sexism that is within our world, reflecting the favorability of the authors to write about male characters over female characters. This entices the question that if the genders were switched, what would the outcome of that final data be? 

Before going into the results of my data, some clarifications must be made and responded to. First, as previously mentioned, best-selling does not directly show that a book is favored over another, it only shows that is was purchased in a store or online more than others. To this, I agree completely, but would like to address that unless a book is well known, commonly due to its well ranked and favorability from others, books go relatively unnoticed. It would be figuratively impossible to walk through a book store and notice every single book. You may notice the bright neon pink book on a shelf as you walk past, but would pay no regards for any of the books around it as you walk past them all. You are heading directly for the book section with all the novels written in your favorite genera, by an author of your liking, or to one that was recommended to you by a friend, online, seen on TV, or from the New York Times Best-sellers list. So as much as I agree that a best sellers list does not properly represent favorability of a novel, I do believe it accurately shows the intended results toward favorability that I am looking for. Second, regarding the accuracy of my data selected for this analysis, I did my best by using combined print & e-book fiction to assure there would be no other limiting factors to my data. Using both print and e-book allowed for more people to be polled increasing the accuracy of what is truly a best seller, and the use of fiction allowed for the openness that the reader may select what type and genera of book that they prefer. Directing the accuracy toward evaluating what is higher ranked, I separated the books by the ratio of males to females and evaluating the rank from one to five per each ratio. From that I evaluated what ratio had higher ranked books and uses that as the results, seeing it would be unfair to rank male dominate books higher when there are just more of them. Third, I would like to address that my claim could be completely wrong and that literature with a higher female to male ratio may rank higher in the list of top literature.  As this is just the result of my data proving my initial claim wrong, I do not directly have a response to it as it will be defined by supporting evidence that I have previously created. However, it would result in further evaluation of why that is as my reasoning does not support the results of this new claim.

Moving to the evaluation of my data, I started by counting the number of books in each of the three divided categories I made and seeing where books are ranked. This is shown in Table 1. Then by dividing the number of books per category by the number in that category, I created the “Character Percent per Ratio Category” table, representing how many books in that category are ranked at what level. I decided to evenly split the books ranked third and measured the percentage that is ranked higher and lower, shown in the “Ratio Count per Category” table. This table is the final results of my research showing the 47% on the books with more male characters are ranked higher, while 59% of the books with more female characters are higher. This means that literature with a higher female to male ratio does rank higher in the list of top literature, with consideration to the ratio of how many books there are with more female characters than to male characters’ book. 

     Table 1: Book Male to Female Ratio Count
                More Male       Equale M/F          More Female
     Ranked 1st     9               6               2
     Ranked 2nd     10              4               3
     Ranked 3rd     9               5               3
     Ranked 4th     11              5               1
     Ranked 5th     11              5               2
     Total          49              25              11


     Table 2: Character Percent per Ratioio Count
                More Male       Equale M/F          More Female
     Ranked 1st     18%              24%               18%
     Ranked 2nd     20%              16%               27%
     Ranked 3rd     18%              20%               27%
     Ranked 4th     22%              20%               9%
     Ranked 5th     20%              20%               18%
     Total          98%              100%              99%


     Table 2: Ratio Count per Category
                More Male       Equale M/F          More Female
     Ranked 1st     47%              50%               59%
     Ranked 2nd     51%              50%               41%
