Twitter #Art by Amy Kamin

https://nodexlgraphgallery.org/Pages/Graph.aspx?graphID=84051

What does it look like when Twitter users tag their posts with the hashtag #art?  This question drove me to compile a small sample of data (199 tweets between 209 users over a period of 2:14-2:16pm on November 30th, 2016) obtained using Twitter’s API and NodeXL.  From this data, I concluded that #art was used primarily by passive users that want to only show others what they think art is, but not to receive input on their interpretation or as an instigator of discussion regarding art in any of its forms.  In other words, most tweets were generally a one-way conversation.  This includes people that may be considered frequent re-tweeters (users whose posts are more than 75% retweets).

For example, the top influencers tagging their tweets with #art – calculated using betweenness centrality – were a talent agency (@nagamanagement) that used it to tag advertisements for their business, and a self-described “Crazywoman PlantWhisperer” (@angelakaplan7) that frequently retweets others or tag-spams posts with one or two-words of her own text and a series of 5-10 tags including the hashtag I was researching.  These two users show a generally passive or coincidental use of #art.  As top influencers, they are also the users with the largest networks, and therefore the largest audience, as shown in the minimalist chart I created and posted on the NodeXL Gallery. 

The users that did not fall into the category of marketer or tag-spammer, and who might have more agency over their use of #art in their tweets, generally tweeted photos of their personal artistic pursuits such as @beccaboo24x7 tweeting a photograph of a completed drawing.  However, a closer look at her tweet history reveals that she too is a frequent re-tweeter, with only one of her last nine tweets containing original material.

Personally, I found this data unsurprising, although still interesting given how Twitter seems to be an arena where individual users that are not celebrities or other social media stars are slowly being replaced by corporate marketing accounts, bots, and newsfeeds.  It is likely that any attempt to use Twitter to start a genuine conversation around #art would need to be orchestrated carefully by a marketing team, probably by a museum or gallery.  Concentrated use of the hashtag for discussion or didactic purposes will not likely catch on if begun by an individual user.
